4295 SUPREME COURT NEW YORK COUNTY CRIMINAL TERM PART 59 ------------------------------------- THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK INDICTMENT \# 71543/2023 -against Falsifying Business Records First Degree DONALD J. TRUMP, Defendant. -------------------------------------:
 100 Centre Street New York, New York 10013 May 21, 2024 B E F O R E: HONORABLE JUAN M. MERCHAN, JUSTICE OF THE SUPREME COURT
A P P E A R A N C E S:
 FOR THE PEOPLE: ALVIN L. BRAGG, JR., ESQ. New York County District Attorney BY: JOSHUA STEINGLASS, ESQ., MATTHEW COLANGELO, ESQ., SUSAN HOFFINGER, ESQ., CHRISTOPHER CONROY, ESQ., REBECCA MANGOLD, ESQ., KATHERINE ELLIS, ESQ., Assistant District Attorneys FOR THE DEFENDANT: BLANCHE LAW BY: TODD BLANCHE, ESQ. EMIL BOVE, ESQ. KENDRA WHARTON, ESQ. NECHELES LAW, LLP BY: SUSAN NECHELES, ESQ. GEDALIA STERN, ESQ. SUSAN PEARCE-BATES Principal Court Reporter LAURIE EISENBERG, RPR, CSR LISA KRAMSKY THERESA MAGNICCARI Senior Court Reporters 4296 1 THE CLERK: Calling People of the State of New York 2 versus Donald J. Trump, Indictment Number 71543 of 2023. 3 Appearances, starting with the People. 4 MR. STEINGLASS: For the People, Assistant District 5 Attorneys Joshua Steinglass, Susan Hoffinger, Matthew 6 Colangelo, Becky Mangold, Christopher Conroy and Katherine 7 Ellis. 8 Good morning, everyone. 9 THE COURT: Good morning, People.

10 MR. BOVE: Good morning, your Honor.

11 Emil Bove for President Trump, who is seated to my 12 left. 13 I'm joined by Todd Blanche, Susan Necheles and 14 Kendra Wharton. 15 THE COURT: Good morning, counsel.

16 Good morning, Mr. Trump.

17 All right. 18 We have a witness on the stand. 19 Is there anything that we need to discuss before we 20 bring the witness in?

21 MR. STEINGLASS: I don't think so.

22 THE COURT: By the way, I did receive your 23 submission. 24 Thank you very much. It is helpful. 25 And I was going to ask, if you plan or if you 4297 1 could, perhaps, do the same for the other submissions of the 2 charges; I do find it helpful. 3 The sooner you can get that to me, the better, 4 okay. 5 Let's get the witness, please.

6 (Pause.)
10 (The witness, Robert Costello, enters the courtroom 11 and resumed the witness stand.)
12 THE COURT OFFICER: Step up to the officer, and 13 please take the witness stand. 14 THE COURT: Good morning, Mr. Costello. Welcome 15 back.

24 for the jury. 25 THE COURT: Yes.

7 THE LIEUTENANT: Ready for the witness, your Honor? 8 THE COURT: Yes, please. 9 THE LIEUTENANT: Witness entering.

16 I remind you that you are still under oath.

17 THE WITNESS: Yes. 18 THE COURT: All right. 19 Let's get the jury, please. 20 THE WITNESS: Can you speak up? My hearing is bad.

21 THE COURT: Okay.

22 (Pause.) 23 MR. STEINGLASS: Your Honor, while we are waiting 4298 1 MR. STEINGLASS: Did you want to ask about their 2 availability for next Wednesday before we send them home 3 today? 4 THE COURT: Yes, I will. 5 THE SERGEANT: All rise. Jury entering.

6 (Jury enters.)
8 THE COURT: Please be seated. 9 THE CLERK: Do both parties stipulate that all 10 jurors are present and properly seated? 19 BY MS. HOFFINGER: 20 Q Good morning, Mr. Costello.

21 A Good morning.

22 Q Now, when we left off yesterday, do you recall that we 23 were discussing that, ultimately, Michael Cohen hired another 24 lawyer to represent him in connection with the Southern District

25 investigation instead of you and your firm; correct?
7 **********
13 THE CLERK: Thank you. 14 THE COURT: Good morning, Jurors. 15 Ms. Hoffinger.

16 MS. HOFFINGER: Thank you, your Honor.

17 ******* 18 CONTINUED CROSS-EXAMINATION
11 MR. STEINGLASS: Yes.

12 MR. BOVE: Yes.

1 A That's correct.

4299 2 MS. HOFFINGER: Can we show the witness, please, 3 and to counsel and to the Court, People's Exhibit 512Q for 6 Q Mr. Costello, do you recognize this email to you, did 7 you receive this email -- you along with your partner Jeffrey 8 Citron -- subject line "Statement of Account?"
10 Q And the email is dated August 8th, 2018?

11 A That's correct. 12 Q And is that an email that you provided to our 13 Office? 14 A I did. 15 I provided a lot of emails to your Office. 16 Q Thank you, sir.

17 MS. HOFFINGER: I now offer People's Exhibit 512Q.

18 MR. BOVE: No objection. 19 THE COURT: People's 512Q is accepted into 20 evidence. 21 (So marked in evidence.)
23 Q I'm just going to read the email for the jury. 24 "Gentlemen, please cease contacting me, as you do not and 25 have never represented me in this or any other matter. Your 5 (Displayed to the aforementioned parties.)
4 identification.

22 *********
9 A I do.

4300 1 interest and offers to become a part of "the team" and to serve 2 as a contact was subject to existing counsel, Guy Petrillo's 3 cc'd approval, which was denied. 4 Now, the subject line says "Statement of Account;" correct, 5 Mr. Costello?

6 A That's correct.

7 Q And that means you were sending him bills; right? 8 A Not with this email. 9 I think he had been provided a bill by the Billing 11 Q And, in reply, he was replying to a statement of 12 account that you had sent him? 13 A That's what it appears to be, yes. 14 Q And you were upset that he had not paid you; right? 15 A I did -- I was. We also replied to this --
16 Q Okay. Thank you.

17 A -- which you have. 18 Q Now, let's go back to your first meeting with Mr. Cohen 19 at the Regency Hotel on April 17th, 2018; okay? 20 A Right. 23 A That's not true. 24 Q Well, didn't you tell him at the first meeting that 25 your relationship with Rudy Giuliani would be useful to him?

21 Q You discussed with him, at that very first meeting, how 22 connected you were to Rudy Giuliani; correct? 10 Department.

4301 1 A No. That was not the first meeting.

2 You are quoting from a different email that is --
3 Q I'm just asking you a question?

4 A That is much later.

5 Q I'm not quoting from an email yet.

6 And I'm just asking you a question and you said, "No;" is 7 that correct?

8 A I said "No," that's correct.

9 Q And you are very close to Rudy Giuliani; correct?

10 A Yes.

11 Q And you've known him for 50 years?

12 A I have.

13 Q And he has been to your wedding?

14 A Yes, he was.

15 Q Okay. Now, didn't you confirm to Michael Cohen in an 16 email two days later that you had, in fact, told him that your 17 relationship with Rudy could be very useful to him?

18 A Yes.

19 Q Okay.

20 MS. HOFFINGER: So let's take a look at People's 21 203 in evidence, please.

22 If you could put that up.

23 (Displayed.)
24 A Yes.

25 Q You sent this email; correct?

4302 1 A Correct. I did.

2 Q To Mr. Cohen? 3 A That's correct. 4 Q Two days after meeting him? 5 A That's correct, yes.

6 Q I'm going to read it for the jury.

7 I'm sure you saw the news that Rudy is joining the Trump 8 legal team. 9 I told you my relationship with Rudy, which could be very, 10 very useful for you.

11 Robert Costello.

12 You sent that email to him; correct? 13 A Yes. 14 Q Okay. Now, when you said, "I told you my relationship 15 with Rudy," didn't you mean that you had told him that at that 16 first meeting --
17 A No. 18 Q -- on August 17th? 19 A No. 20 Q Okay. Let's take a look. 22 and for the counsel and for the Court, People's Exhibit 512E 23 for identification, please. 24 (Displayed for the aforementioned parties only.) 25 Q Mr. Costello, do you recognize this email that you sent 21 MS. HOFFINGER: Let's put up just for the witness 4303 1 to your partner, Jeff Citron, the same day, on April 19th, 2 subject line, "Rudy Giuliani to join Trump's legal team?" 3 A Yes, I do. 4 Q And you provided that email to our Office; correct? 5 A Absolutely, correct. More than a year ago.

6 MS. HOFFINGER: I offer in evidence now People's 7 512E.

20 connection to Giuliani, which I mentioned to him in our meeting.

21 That was your email; correct?

22 A Correct. 23 Q Now, you continued to tell Mr. Cohen, did you not, that 24 your relationship with Rudy Giuliani would provide him with a 25 back channel of communications to President Trump; isn't that 8 MR. BOVE: No objection. 9 THE COURT: People's 512E is accepted and received 10 into evidence.

11 (So marked in evidence.)
12 ********* 13 Q And so, this is your -- I'm going to read to you -- 14 read to the jury from your email to Jeffrey Citron, April 19th, 15 2018.

16 You sent a link from Fox News that said "Rudy Giuliani to 17 join Trump team." 18 Here is your email to your partner, Jeffrey Citron: 19 All the more reason for Cohen to hire me because of my 1 correct?

4304 2 A No, that's not correct. 3 MS. HOFFINGER: Let's show People's Exhibit 204 in 4 evidence, please. 5 (Displayed.)
6 Q Do you remember sending this email to Mr. Cohen on 7 April 21st of 2018? 8 A Yes, I do. 9 Q I will read to the jury from the email:
10 Michael, I just spoke to Rudy Giuliani and told him I was on 11 your team.

12 Rudy was thrilled and said this could not be a better 13 situation for the President or you. 14 He asked me if it was okay to call the President and Jay 15 Sekulow and I said, fine.

16 We discussed the facts, Jay Goldberg's stupid remarks, et 17 cetera. He said I can't tell you how pleased I am that I can 18 work with someone I know and trust. 19 He asked me to tell you that he knows how tough this is 20 on you and your family and he will make sure to tell the 21 President.

22 He said thank you for opening this back channel of 23 communication and asked me to keep in touch. 24 I told him I would after speaking to you further. 25 Bob.

4305 1 That was your email, correct, to Michael Cohen?

2 A Yes. 3 Q And the email speaks for itself; right, sir? 4 A I'm sorry? 5 Q The email speaks for itself; right, sir?

6 A No, not quite, because there are surrounding 8 Q Uh-huh. 9 A -- about that email, which I will be delighted to tell 10 you about.

11 Q That's all right.

12 MS. HOFFINGER: Let's move on to the next one. 13 Can we put up People's 205 now, in evidence. 14 (Displayed.) 15 Q You sent this email to Michael Cohen on April 21st of 16 2018; right?

17 A Yes, I did. 18 Q And you provided that email to our Office as well; 19 correct? 20 A Absolutely.

21 Q I will read to the jury from it.

22 From Robert Costello to Michael Cohen. Subject line 23 "Giuliani." 24 I spoke with Rudy. Very, very positive. You are loved. If 25 you want to call me, I will give you the details.

7 circumstances --
4306 1 I told him everything you asked me to and he said they knew 2 that. 3 There was never a doubt that they are in our corner. 4 Rudy said this communication channel must be maintained. 5 He called it crucial and noted how reassured they were that 20 A I did. That's in the P.S., yes. 23 A I'm not sure, because I don't know what I was referring 24 to, but I think that's reasonable to conclude. 25 MS. HOFFINGER: Can we now show just to the 6 they had someone like me whom Rudy has known for so many years 7 in this role. 8 Sleep well tonight. You have friends in high places. 9 Bob.

10 P.S., some very positive comments about you from the White 11 House.

12 Rudy noted how that followed my chat with him last night. 13 Now, you were sending him this message of reassurance that 14 he was loved by President Trump, that's what "friends in high 15 places" means; doesn't it?

16 A "Friends in high places" definitely refers to President 17 Trump, yes. 18 Q And didn't you say, "P.S. some very positive comments 19 about you from the White House?"
21 Q And just in case there is any doubt, you were talking 22 about President Trump there; right?

4307 4 Q Do you recognize this email that you sent to your 8 Q And you provided this email to our Office as well; did 1 witness, the Court and the parties, People's Exhibit 512G 2 for identification.

3 (Displayed to the aforementioned parties only.)
5 partner Jeffrey Citron on May 15th of 2018; subject: "Call to 6 Cohen?" 7 A Yes.

9 you not?

10 A I did, yeah.

11 MS. HOFFINGER: I will offer in evidence People's 12 People's Exhibit 512 G. 13 MR. BOVE: No objection. 14 THE COURT: Accepted into evidence. 15 MS. HOFFINGER: Can you blow up the first 16 paragraph, thank you.

17 Can you make the first paragraph larger for the 18 jury to see. 19 Thank you. 20 (Displayed.) 21 Q I'm going to read this to the jury. 22 Robert Costello. Tuesday, May 15th, 2018. To Jeffrey 23 Citron. Subject: "Call to Cohen." 24 Jeff, it's time for you to call Michael Cohen, as he has 25 failed to respond to my emails and text messages.

4308 1 I spoke with Giuliani yesterday and he told me the 2 following: 3 He said he spoke with Stephen Ryan of McDermott Will & 4 Emery, Mike's current attorney, and he and Jay Sekulow will be 5 meeting with Ryan in Washington on Wednesday or Thursday of this 6 week.

21 with Michael Cohen because after doing all of this 22 investigation, last November, he transferred the case to the 23 Southern District. 24 I said that it was important to reverse the Avenatti-created 25 Russian spin to the Cohen investigation, and the best way to do 10 He may have meant Trump Enterprises, but he did say that the 11 President -- he also said the President was satisfied with Ryan 12 and MWE was the right group to go through all of the documents, 13 but after that he wanted more aggressive lawyers representing 14 Cohen, us. 15 He said the President was being charged $200,000 by MWE for 16 the document review and that Jay Sekulow told Trump that was an 17 outrageously large fee. 18 I spoke with Giuliani about the text message that I had sent 19 him the previous Friday, in which I outlined the argument that 20 Mueller had already found that there was no Russian collusion 7 He indicated that the President was paying for McDermott 8 Will & Emery to review the documentation for the attorney-client 9 privilege issues.

4309 1 that was to use Mueller's investigation to our own advantage.

2 He loved the idea and thought it was very important to get 3 that message out there. 4 But he thought he should not do that because it would look 5 like he is defending Michael Cohen.

6 He said Ryan wouldn't do that and, in any event, Ryan was 7 the wrong guy for that, but I was the right guy for that. 8 He said the President is tired of Ryan and will no longer 9 fund Ryan once the document review is completed.

12 (Displayed.) 13 Q Our issue is to get Cohen on the right page without 14 giving him the appearance that we are following instructions 15 from Giuliani or the President.

16 In my opinion, this is the clear correct strategy.

17 We must reverse the Avenatti effect and restore this to a 20 Bob. 24 A No, not to follow instructions, but to get everybody on 25 the same page, because Michael Cohen had been complaining, 10 MS. HOFFINGER: Can you please blow up the last 11 paragraph, please, in yellow.

18 far more simple investigation of things, that while they might 19 not look good politically and nevertheless legal.

21 Now, you sent this email to your partner, about your goal of 22 getting Cohen to follow instructions from Rudy Giuliani and the 23 President without it appearing so; correct?

4310 1 incessantly, frankly, that Rudy Giuliani was making statements 2 in the press that Michael Cohen didn't approve of -- 3 Q Thank you. 4 A -- and that's why I said to him, if you really feel 5 that way, make it known and tell me, and I will tell them.

6 Q Thank you for that response.

7 And, as you said yesterday, the email speaks for itself; 10 Q Okay. Let me direct your attention now to People's 207 15 A Yes, but it says it's a draft.

16 Q It says "Update draft."
17 A Right. 18 Q Correct? 19 A Right. 20 Q So this is an email that you sent; is that correct?

21 A Yes.

22 Q Okay. Let's take a look at the first paragraph, 23 please. 24 MS. HOFFINGER: Let's take a look at the first 25 paragraph, please.

9 A Sometimes.

12 (Displayed.) 13 Q This is another email from you to Michael Cohen dated 14 June 13th of 2018; right?

8 correct?

11 in evidence.

4311 1 (Displayed.)
4 Michael, since you jumped off the phone rather abruptly, 5 I did not get a chance to tell you that my friend has 6 communicated to me that he is meeting with his client this 7 evening. 8 And he added that if there was anything that you wanted to 9 convey, you should tell me, and my friend will bring it up for 10 discussion this evening.

11 Weren't you encouraging Michael Cohen there to send any 12 message he wanted to the President through Rudy Giuliani; isn't 13 that right? 14 A I was encouraging Michael Cohen, as I just explained to 15 you in my previous answer, to express any of his complaints --
16 and he had several -- so that I could bring them to Giuliani and 17 get them worked out, whatever they were. 18 Q Okay. 19 MS. HOFFINGER: Let's take a look at the last 20 paragraph, please.

21 (Displayed.)
22 Q Please remember that if you want or need to 23 communicate something, please let me know and I will see that it 24 gets done. 25 I hope I am wrong but it seems to both Jeff and I that 2 Q This is from Robert Costello, Wednesday, June 13th, 3 2018, to Michael Cohen.

4312 1 perhaps we have been played here.

2 Let me know what you want to do. 3 You sent that email; correct? 4 A Yes, I did. 5 Q You felt that you had been played by Michael Cohen; 6 correct?

7 A Yes.

22 (Displayed.) 23 Q This is another email that you sent to Michael Cohen on 24 June 14th of 2018; correct? 25 A That is correct.

8 Do you want me to explain it? 9 Q No, sir.

10 Because you had not been paid; is that right?

11 A No.

12 Q Okay. Isn't that what you meant by "being played?" 13 A No. Now you do want me to explain it? 14 Q No, sir. 15 A When I said "being played" --
16 Q Excuse me, sir.

17 MR. BOVE: Judge, let him finish answering. There 18 is a pending question. 19 THE COURT: There is no pending question. 20 MS. HOFFINGER: Let's take a look at People's 208, 21 please, in evidence.

4313 1 Q And in this email, aren't you encouraging him not to 2 cooperate?

3 Yes or no? 4 A Let me read it.

5 Q Sure. 7 A Okay. 6 (Witness reading document.)
8 Your question is? 9 Q In this email, aren't you encouraging him not to 10 cooperate, yes or no?

11 A No. 12 Q Okay. 13 MS. HOFFINGER: Let's take a look at the first 14 paragraph. 15 Put that up for the jury, please. 16 (Displayed.)
17 Q From Robert Costello to Michael Cohen.

18 Subject line: "Giuliani on the possibility of Cohen 19 cooperating. Mueller Probe." 20 The answer to your question will be found in watching the 21 video. 22 It seems clear to me that you are under the impression that 23 Trump and Giuliani are trying to discredit you and "throw you 24 under the bus," to use your phrase.

25 I think you are wrong because you are believing the 4314 1 narrative promoted by the left wing media.

2 They want you to believe what they are writing. 3 Many of them are already writing that you are cooperating. 4 This strategy has been consistent from the start to put 5 pressure on you into believing that you are alone, that everyone 6 you knew before is distancing themselves from you and you are 7 being "thrown under the bus." 8 The whole objective of this exercise by the Southern 9 District of New York is to drain you, emotionally and 10 financially, until you reach a point that you see them as your 11 only means to salvation.

12 I told you that on the very first day I met you. 13 That's your email; correct? 14 A That's correct. 15 MS. HOFFINGER: Let's take a look at the third 16 paragraph, please.

17 If you could just blow up the third paragraph. 18 Thank you so much. 19 (Displayed.) 20 Q You are making a very big mistake if you believe 21 the stories that these, quote, "journalists" are writing about 22 you. 23 They want you to cave. 24 They want you to fail. 25 They do not want you to persevere and succeed.

4315 1 If you really believe you are not being supported properly 2 by your former boss, then you should make your position known.

3 If you really want certain things to happen, you should make 4 that known. 9 Whether you exercise that ability is totally up to you.

10 You wrote that to him; right? 11 A I did.

12 Q In June of 2018, you were really angry, were you not, 13 about Michael Cohen playing you?

14 A Angry? No.

15 Q You were upset that he was playing you; weren't you?

16 A No. That's not correct. That's the wrong word.

17 Q Okay.

18 A I was informed --
19 Q Weren't you --
20 A And I informed Jeff Citron of that.

21 Q Didn't you believe that he was also playing President 22 Trump; correct?

23 A I don't think that's correct.

24 Q Okay.
25 Yesterday, you were asked a question by defense counsel:
7 You have the ability to make that communication when you 8 want to. 5 If you really want other lawyers to refrain from saying this 6 or that, you should make it known.

4316 1 "Whose interest did you have in mind during the course of that 2 relationship?" 3 And you answered: "Exclusively Michael Cohen's." 4 Do you remember that? 5 A Yes. And that's right. That's correct.

6 Q And you also were asked by Mr. Bove: "Did you care 7 about President Trump's interests while you were dealing with 8 Michael Cohen?" 9 And your answer was: "No. My obligation was to Michael 10 Cohen."
11 Do you remember testifying to that yesterday?

12 A Yes, I do, uh-huh. 13 Q Okay. 14 MS. HOFFINGER: Let's show to just the witness 15 now, and to counsel and to the Court, People's Exhibit 512H
16 for identification.

17 (Displayed.) 18 Q Do you recognize this email that you sent to your 19 partner, Citron, on June 22nd, 2018, subject line: "Michael 20 Cohen?"
21 A Yes, I do.

22 Q And you provided this email to our office as well; did 23 you not? 24 A Yes, as I provided you with all of my emails -- 25 Q Okay.

4317 1 A -- as well as this one..

3 512H. 2 MS. HOFFINGER: I now offer in evidence People's 9 see.

10 (Displayed.)
11 Q Now, at the bottom here was a text from Michael Cohen; 12 correct? 13 A That is correct. 14 Q Finished document review and then met with counsel. 15 Arrived home at 8:30 and just took wife to get dinner. Let's 16 speak tomorrow.

17 And you forwarded that text to your partner, Jeffrey Citron; 18 correct? 19 A Yes, I did. 20 MS. HOFFINGER: Can we blow up the top email now, 21 please, for the jury.

22 (Displayed.) 23 Q Jeff, this is the response I received from Michael 24 after sending him a detailed text followed by a voicemail one 25 hour later at 4:00 p.m.

8 MS. HOFFINGER: Can you put it up for the jury to 5 THE COURT: 512H is accepted.

6 (So marked in evidence.)
7 *********
4 MR. BOVE: No objection.

4318 1 Tune in to CNN and see how they are playing this up.

2 Cohen has to know this, yet he continues to slow play us and the 3 President. Is he totally nuts??? 4 I'm in a golf tournament tomorrow early and again on Sunday. 5 What should I say to this asshole?

6 He is playing with the most powerful man on the planet.

7 Now, that email certainly speaks for itself; does it not, 8 Mr. Costello? 9 A Yes, it does.

10 Q You still -- withdrawn.

11 You had lost control of Michael Cohen for President Trump; 12 didn't you? 13 A Can you repeat that? 14 Q You lost control of Michael Cohen for the President; 15 did you not?

16 A Absolutely not.

17 Q Well, when he hired Guy Petrillo instead of you, you 18 could no longer control him; correct? 19 A Ummm, no. 20 In fact, if you look at the email --
21 Q Yes or no, sir?

22 Yes or no? 23 A Okay. 24 Q Is your answer no? 25 A I did --
4319 1 Q Did you not lose control of him?

2 A I did -- 3 Q You did lose control of him? 4 A No. I answered no. 5 Q Okay.

6 And you didn't lose control of him when he pled guilty on 7 August 21st, 2018? 8 A What do you mean by that? 9 Q You are stating under oath that he had violated two 10 separate campaign finance violations in coordination with and in 11 the direction of Donald Trump --
12 MR. BOVE: Objection. 13 THE COURT: Overruled. 14 Q -- for the initial purpose of influencing the election; 15 yes or no?

16 A You are asking me if I lost control when he pled 18 Q Correct. 17 guilty? 19 A I certainly didn't have any control when he pled 20 guilty.

21 Q Understood.

22 And you still have a lot of animosity against Michael Cohen; 23 don't you? 24 A I don't have any animosity. I just don't think Michael 25 Cohen is telling the truth --
4320 1 Q Yes or no? Yes or no? Do you have animosity against 2 Michael Cohen? 3 A No. 4 Q Well, last week, on May 15th, didn't you go to Congress 5 to testify about this case and testify all about Michael Cohen; 6 didn't you go to the House of Representatives to do that?

7 A Yes. I was requested to go by the House of 8 Representatives, and I went.

11 correct?

12 A I went there to testify. 13 Q And you knew your comments would be reported in the 14 press; correct? 15 A I didn't know, although it's certainly possible.

16 Q And it was an effort by you, wasn't it, to try to 17 intimidate Michael Cohen while he was testifying here; isn't 18 that correct? 19 A I was intimidating him? 20 Q Yes, that's my question.

21 A That's ridiculous. No.

22 MS. HOFFINGER: Nothing further. 23 THE COURT: Any redirect? 25 May I inquire, Judge? 24 MR. BOVE: Yes, Judge, thank you.

9 Q And you went there to publicly vilify Michael Cohen 10 while he was in the middle of his testimony; isn't that 4321 1 THE COURT: Please.

2 MR. BOVE: Thank you.

3 *******
4 REDIRECT EXAMINATION
5 BY MR. BOVE: 6 MR. BOVE: Mr. Bernik, can we please take a look at 7 Government Exhibit 512Q in evidence.

8 I'm sorry, if I could ask the Government to help me 9 out with that one.

10 Thank you. 11 MS. HOFFINGER: That's a People's Exhibit?

12 MR. BOVE: Yes.

13 Thank you.

14 MS. HOFFINGER: You're welcome.

15 (Displayed.)
16 MR. BOVE: And if we could zoom in on the email, 17 please. 19 Q And, so, Mr. Costello, this is an email that Michael 18 (Displayed.) 20 Cohen sent to you and some others on August 8th; correct?

21 A That is correct.

22 Q And do you see where he wrote in the first sentence:
23 "Please cease contacting me as you do not and have never 24 represented me in this or any other matter."
25 Do you see that?

4322 1 A I do.

2 Q And I want to focus on the part of that sentence that 3 reads: "Have never represented me." 4 Do you see that? 5 A I do.

6 Q From your perspective, was that true or false at the 8 A False.

15 Q Now, this is a Waiver signed by Michael Cohen, and I'm 16 focused on the sentence that begins, "Although."
17 Do you see that? 18 A Yes. 19 Q Do you see where it says: "At no time did I sign a 20 retainer or otherwise agree to retain Costello."
21 Do you see that on Page 2?

22 A I do. 23 Q And do you see where it says: "Otherwise agreed or 24 retained Costello?" 25 A I do.

9 MR. BOVE: Now, I would like to next look at 10 Government Exhibit 504AT in evidence.

11 I think we have this one.

12 And I just want to look at the carry-over sentence 13 on Page 1 and 2. 14 (Displayed.)
7 time that Cohen said it?

4323 1 Q So if Michael Cohen signed this document, that's a 2 false statement; right? 3 A That is a false statement. 4 MS. HOFFINGER: Objection, your Honor. 5 THE COURT: Overruled.

14 Q On April 20th of 2018? 15 A Correct.

16 MR. BOVE: And can we zoom in on the bottom email, 17 please. 18 A Yes. 20 Q Do you see where you said, you wrote to your son, "I
21 will be on the team," and then in quotes, "'It would be an honor 22 to have you as part of my team. I will be eternally grateful 23 for the help and guidance that you have already given me.'" 24 Do you see that quote? 25 A Yes.

7 Exhibit 512M. 8 This is something that Ms. Hoffinger put in 9 yesterday.

10 (Displayed.)
11 Q This is an email that -- it's an exchange between you 12 and your son; right? 13 A That is correct.

19 (Displayed.)
6 MR. BOVE: Well, let's look at Government 4324 1 Q And then there is a dash, it says, "Michael Cohen, 3 A Yes. It's a quote from Michael Cohen.

4 Q So that's something that Michael Cohen said to you, 5 specifically, on April 20th of 2018? 7 Q And that's why you put it in quotation marks to your 8 son?

10 Q And then you wrote Michael Cohen's title after that; 11 right?

12 A That's the way -- yeah.

13 Q Because you were trying to explain to your son --
14 A Who he was.

15 Q -- what Cohen's role was; right?

16 A Correct.

17 MR. BOVE: And let's take a look at Defense 18 Exhibit B1018.

19 Zoom in on rows 6 through 8.

20 (Displayed.)
21 Q So, this is that phone chart that we worked with a 22 little bit yesterday?

23 A Right.

24 Q And you see that this reflects calls on April 20th, 25 2018?

2 Personal Attorney for President Donald J. Trump?"
9 A Exactly.

6 A Yes.

4325 1 A That's correct.

2 Q So, on the same date that you sent that email with the 14 Do you see the reference on the last line to "being played 15 here?"
16 A Right.

17 Q And when you wrote that, were you concerned about the 18 types of things that Michael Cohen --
21 Q When you wrote that, were you concerned about the 22 things that Michael Cohen later wrote to you in that August 2018 23 email that we just looked at where he said you never had legal 24 representation? 25 A No, not at all.

9 Q And I want you to take a look at Page 2.

10 MR. BOVE: And if we can zoom in on the last 11 paragraph.

12 (Displayed.) 13 Q And you talked about this email with Ms. Hoffinger.

19 MS. HOFFINGER: Objection. 20 THE COURT: Overruled.

5 A Right.

6 MR. BOVE: Now, I would like to take a look at 7 Government Exhibit 207 next. 8 (Displayed.)
3 quote from Michael Cohen to your son, you see the 30-minute call 4 from Michael Cohen to you?

4326 1 Q What did you mean when you expressed concern that "we 2 had been played here?"
3 A He constantly referred to the fact -- Jeff Citron gave 4 him a Retainer Agreement, I think it was about two weeks after 5 the initial meeting on April 17th, 2018. 6 He stuck it in his briefcase that day and said to us, "I 7 will look at it later."
8 Every time Jeff asked him about the retainer, "Michael, did 9 you sign the retainer yet," he gave an excuse.

10 He would claim -- he tried to let us believe that he was 11 paying McDermott Will & Emery, which was conducting the 12 examination on all of the documents that had been seized 13 pursuant to the search warrants. 14 In fact, I found out from Giuliani that he wasn't even 15 paying -- 16 MS. HOFFINGER: Objection.

17 A -- McDermott Will & Emery.

18 THE COURT: Sustained. 19 Q Were you concerned that you were representing Michael 20 Cohen, but he wasn't signing the Retainer Agreement? 21 A Yeah, sure. 22 MR. BOVE: Now, I want to take a look at 23 Government Exhibit 2035 next, please. 24 And if we could zoom in on the email.

25 Q So this one is dated April 21st; do you see that?

1 A Correct. I do.

4327 2 Q And this is an email that you sent to Michael Cohen 3 that day; correct? 4 A That's right. 5 Q And this is the day after that email you sent to your 7 A Right.

6 son with the quote from Michael Cohen?

8 Q Correct? 9 A That's correct.

10 Q And do you see at the top where you wrote:
11 "Attorney-client communication privileged?"
12 A Yes. 13 Q Why did you write that? 14 A Because it was an attorney-client communication and, 15 therefore, privileged. That's why I wrote it.

16 Q That's your perspective; right?

17 A Yes. 18 Q Did Michael Cohen write back to you and say: Hey, wait 19 a second, you are not my lawyer? 20 A No.

21 Q And did you write back and say: Hey, wait a minute, 22 you didn't even send me a Retainer Agreement? 23 A No. 24 Q And did he actually write back and say: Hey, I'm 25 talking to a bunch of lawyers right now and I haven't made a 4328 1 decision?

2 A No, he didn't. 3 Q And did he, in fact, continue to give you instructions 4 in order to continue to review things with Rudy Giuliani? 5 A Yes.

6 Q Now, let's talk about some of those instructions, 7 like --
19 A Correct. 20 Q And it's another email that you put that legend at the 22 A That is correct. 23 Q And you are updating Cohen on what you had written, 24 what you had said to Giuliani; right? 25 A That is correct.

8 MR. BOVE: Let's look at Government Exhibit 204, 9 please.

10 (Displayed.)
11 MR. BOVE: And if you could zoom in a bit.

12 (Displayed.) 13 Q I want to focus on the last two sentences, and there is 14 a reference to "back channel." 15 Do you see that?

16 A I do.

17 Q And so, this is the same day as the last email that we 18 looked at, April 21st, 2018; right?

21 top, "Privileged and confidential;" correct?

4329 3 A He asked me to. 4 Q And, now, let's focus on the words "back channel." 5 Between Michael Cohen, you, and Rudy Giuliani, who first 6 used the word "back channel?"
7 A Rudy Giuliani, in response to my telling him we 8 couldn't make this public, because that's what Michael Cohen had 9 said to me: You can tell Rudy Giuliani and the President's team 13 Q And this is April 21st, the day after the email that 14 you sent to your son and the half-an-hour call with Cohen; 15 right?

16 A That's right.

17 Q And Giuliani used the word "back channel," you said? 18 A Yes. 19 Q And that is after you described to him the instructions 20 that Michael Cohen provided to you; right?

21 A Yes. That is right.

22 MS. HOFFINGER: Objection. 23 THE COURT: Sustained. 24 Q Now, let's take a look at Defense Exhibit E1008, 25 please.

1 Q So, Cohen is in no position to be surprised that you 2 are communicating to Giuliani on his behalf; is he?

10 that you want -- quote, that you were, quote, on the team, but 11 we don't want to go public with this; and he gave an excuse, it 12 would cause a press uproar.

4330 1 And look at the bottom email, May 16th, 2018.

2 In the last line, do you see where you said: "I will not 3 pester you. If you want to talk, you know how to reach Jeff and 4 myself." 5 A Right.

6 Q What did you mean by that?

20 who initiated communication following that email. 23 (At Sidebar.) 24 ******
7 MS. HOFFINGER: Judge, beyond the scope. 8 THE COURT: Sustained. 9 MR. BOVE: This was inquired about on 10 cross-examination.

11 THE COURT: Sustained.

12 MS. HOFFINGER: No, it was not. 13 Q Let's take a look at who initiated communication next, 14 following that May 16th email -- 15 MS. HOFFINGER: Objection, your Honor. Beyond the 16 scope.

17 THE COURT: I'm sorry. Can you repeat that 18 question? 19 MR. BOVE: I would like to look at the evidence of 21 THE COURT: Please approach.

22 MR. BOVE: Yes, your Honor. 25 MS. HOFFINGER: Judge, we have been over all of 4331 4 direct.

1 this on direct, and I did not inquire into any of it on 2 cross.

3 THE COURT: Yes, you covered all of this on your 25 THE COURT: The objection is sustained.

5 MR. BOVE: But then he was impeached about things 6 that happened in June, to make the suggestion that he did 7 actually pester Michael Cohen.

8 I'm just quoting from the email that's on the 9 screen, and that's why I'm trying to reinforce the point 10 that's --
11 THE COURT: You can't use -- 12 MR. BOVE: -- in response to the impeachment. 13 THE COURT: You can't use what was not questioned 14 about or asked about on cross; and her cross was based on 15 your direct. 16 MR. BOVE: It's in response to the cross that I am 17 now asking on my redirect --
18 THE COURT: You went through questions on direct, 19 Ms. Hoffinger had the opportunity to cross-examine the 20 witness in response to what you asked on direct. You now 21 cannot hammer home what you asked on direct if she did not 22 cover it. That's not the way it works.

23 MR. BOVE: Yes, Judge. Understood. 24 (Sidebar concluded.)
1 *******
4332 2 CONTINUED REDIRECT EXAMINATION 3 BY MR. BOVE: 4 MR. BOVE: If we could take a look at Government 5 Exhibit 208, please.

6 (Displayed.)
7 Q And this is an email that Ms. Hoffinger just asked you 8 about; right? 9 Do you recall questions about whether this email involved 10 you putting pressure on Michael Cohen to cooperate?

11 A Yes.

12 MR. BOVE: And I would like to look at Page 2, 13 please. 14 Q And focus in on the carry-over paragraph on the top of 15 the page.

16 Do you see where you say, "You have the ability to make that 17 communication when you want to. Whether you exercise that 18 ability is totally up to you." 19 Do you see that? 20 A I do.

21 Q Was that you trying to pressure Michael Cohen to do 22 anything? 23 A No, not at all. 24 Q Was that just you giving him options and waiting for 25 his instructions?

4333 1 A Exactly.

2 Q Did you ever pressure Michael Cohen to do anything? 3 A I did not. 4 Q Did you ever have control over Michael Cohen? 5 A Clearly not.

6 Q Does a lawyer ever control his client?

18 A I did. 19 Q Including the email you sent to your son where you 22 A That is true. 23 Q And that's an email that he sent to you after that 24 meeting at the Regency Hotel; correct? 25 A Yes.

7 MS. HOFFINGER: Objection, your Honor. 8 THE COURT: Sustained as to form. 9 Q I just want to ask you a question right now.

10 You are experienced in how you practice law?

11 MS. HOFFINGER: Objection.

12 THE COURT: Sustained. 13 Q Did you have control over Michael Cohen, sir? 14 A No, I did not. 15 Q In every single document that we've looked at during 16 your testimony, you provided them to these guys a year ago; 20 quoted Michael Cohen and indicated that he had told you that you 21 were his lawyer; right?

17 correct?

4334 1 Q And it was in the April 17th meeting where he said that 2 President Trump did not know about the payment to Stormy 3 Daniels; correct? 4 A That is correct. 5 MS. HOFFINGER: Objection.

18 how that affected the way that you wanted to represent him? 19 MS. HOFFINGER: Objection. 20 THE COURT: Sustained as to the leading.

21 Q What was your purpose in subsequent meetings with 22 Mr. Cohen? 23 A To continue to discuss his legal problems and how he 24 was going to deal with them. 25 Q Did you -- did someone propose a Retainer Agreement to 7 MS. HOFFINGER: Objection. 8 THE COURT: Sustained. 9 MS. HOFFINGER: Move to strike.

10 THE COURT: It is stricken.

11 Q And the next in-person meeting you had was May 3rd?

12 MS. HOFFINGER: Objection. Beyond the scope. 13 THE COURT: Sustained. 14 A Correct. 15 Q April 17th wasn't your only meeting; correct?

16 A Correct.

17 Q You met with Mr. Cohen to understand his concerns and 6 A That is correct. Many times.

4335 1 Michael Cohen in the subsequent meetings, after the meeting at 2 the Regency?

3 A My recollection -- yes, it was May 3rd, at our office. 4 Q And you told the Government all of this a year ago; 5 right? 6 A I did. 7 Q And you told the Government about the attorney-client 8 relationship that you had with Michael Cohen; right? 9 A Correct.

10 MS. HOFFINGER: Objection.

11 THE COURT: Sustained. 12 Q These things that you said at this trial have been 13 known to these people; correct? 14 (Indicating the People's table.) 15 MS. HOFFINGER: Objection. 16 A Yes.

17 THE COURT: Sustained.

18 MR. BOVE: I have nothing further, Judge. 19 THE COURT: Any recross? 20 MS. HOFFINGER: Just two questions, your Honor. 21 ******* 22 RECROSS-EXAMINATION
23 BY MS. HOFFINGER: 24 Q Mr. Costello, you said that you gave Mr. Cohen a 25 Retainer Agreement weeks later, after meeting with him on 4336 1 May 3rd; did you say?

4 Q On May 3rd? 5 A Yes.

9 Q Do you recognize that Retainer Agreement in front of 10 you, sir?

11 A This looks like it, yeah.

12 Q Do you see the date of April 20th, 2018? 13 A It says "As of." 14 Q "As of April 20th, 2018?" 15 A Right. Correct. That's the day that he said: "You are 16 on the team."
18 correct? 19 A That is correct. 20 Q And he never paid you; correct?

21 A That is correct.

22 MS. HOFFINGER: Thank you. 23 THE COURT: Anything else? 25 Thank you.

2 A Actually, it was Jeff Citron who gave it to him, but we 3 were in the room.

6 MS. HOFFINGER: Can we just show to the witness, 7 please, People's 504BE, just for counsel, the witness and 24 MR. BOVE: No, Judge. 17 Q And Michael Cohen never signed that Retainer Agreement; 8 the Court.

4337 10 Jurors, as you've just heard, the People rested 11 yesterday.

12 The Defense just rested today. 13 So, what normally happens at this point is that you 14 will hear the summations of the attorneys; the summations 15 are then followed by my instructions to you on the law; and 16 then you will begin your deliberations.

17 In a case like this, which is a rather long case, 18 summations will not be quick. 19 I expect that the summations will take, for both 20 attorneys, they will take at least a day.

21 I expect that my instructions will take at least an 22 hour. 23 My belief is that it's always ideal or best not to 24 break up summations. I prefer that the jury hear both 25 summations at the same time, if at all possible.

1 THE COURT: Thank you, sir.

2 You can step down. 3 (Witness excused.) 4 ********** 5 THE COURT: Counsel?

6 MR. BLANCHE: Your Honor, the Defense rests.

7 THE COURT: People? 8 MR. STEINGLASS: Nothing further, Judge. 9 THE COURT: Okay.

4338 1 It's not always possible.

2 Also, ideally, I then would like to give the jury 3 the jury charge; and then immediately after the jury charge, 4 I would like for the jury to begin your deliberations. 5 As you know, this week we are only meeting today 6 and Thursday; therefore, there is no way that we could 20 that I have given to you up to this point. You've heard them 21 many times.

22 It might be tempting to think that, you know, now 23 that both sides have rested, you can kind of let up a little 24 bit. 25 But, in fact, these instructions now take on even 7 possibly do what needs to be done in any kind of a cohesive 8 manner; it would just be broken up. 9 I considered all of the permutations, the different 10 scheduling options, and at the end of the day, I think that 11 the best thing that we can do is to adjourn now until next 12 Tuesday. 13 At that time, you will hear the summations of the 14 attorneys, and that will probably continue the next day, on 15 Wednesday -- and I am asking you to come in on Wednesday --
16 and that next day, Wednesday, you will hear my jury charge, 17 and then I will expect that you will begin your 18 deliberations, hopefully, at some point on Wednesday. 19 So, you are familiar with all of the instructions 4339 1 greater significance.

2 So, I remind you to, please, not to talk either 3 among yourselves or anyone else on anything related to the 4 case.

6 Do not form or express an opinion about the 7 defendant's guilt or innocence until all of the evidence is 8 in, and I have given you my final instructions on the law, 9 and I have directed you to begin your deliberations.

10 Do not request, accept, agree to accept or discuss 11 with any person the receipt or acceptance of any payment or 12 benefit in return for supplying any information concerning 13 the trial. 14 Report directly to me any incident within your 15 knowledge involving an attempt by any person improperly to 16 influence you or any members of the jury.

17 Do not visit or view any of the locations discussed 18 in the testimony. 19 And do not use any program or electronic device 20 to search for and view any location discussed in the 21 testimony.

22 Please do not read, view or listen to any accounts 23 or discussions of the case, that includes the reading or the 24 listening to the reading of any transcripts of the trial, or 25 the reading of any posts on any court sites.

5 Please continue to keep an open mind.

4340 1 Do not attempt to research any fact, issue or law 2 related to the case. 3 Please do not communicate with anyone about the 4 case by any means, including by telephone, text messages, 5 email or the internet.

6 And do not Google or otherwise search for any 7 information about the case, or the law which applies to the 8 case, or the people involved in the case. 9 Just speaking ahead to next Tuesday, I'm not a 10 hundred percent sure that we're going to get both summations 11 done by 4:30.

12 So, what I would ask you to do between now and then 13 is to give some thought, if necessary, if you could work 14 late on Tuesday. 15 If you are unable to do so, that's fine; we will 16 just continue on Wednesday.

17 All right. Thank you. 18 I will see you in a week. 19 THE COURT OFFICER: All rise. 20 (Jury exits.)
21 **********
22 THE COURT: Thank you. 23 Please be seated. 24 So, as we discussed and agreed to yesterday, the 25 plan is for us to take some time now and continue working on 4341 1 the proposed jury charges and then come back and meet here 2 at 2:15. 3 I repeat my request. If possible, if the two of 4 you could put together some additional questions of the 10 Is there anything else that we need to cover?

11 MR. STEINGLASS: No.

12 Thank you, Judge. 13 MR. BOVE: Just a procedural question, Judge. 14 Do we have the Court's permission to file the 15 request documents publicly?

16 THE COURT: And what's the reason for that?

17 MR. BOVE: I'm just asking, Judge. I'm just 18 asking. 19 THE COURT: Okay. Because it's not a final 20 document.

21 What we can do is mark it as a Court Exhibit. We 22 can do that.

5 proposed jury charges and submit them exactly like you did 6 earlier today, based on if there is an objection from one 7 side or the other, but I think that that would go a long way 8 to help us getting through the charge conference this 9 afternoon.

23 So, we can take what you submitted earlier and mark 24 that as a Court Exhibit. 25 MR. BOVE: That's the document I was requesting, our 4342 1 submissions to your Honor.

2 THE COURT: That could be a Court Exhibit. That's 3 fine. 4 We will have the in-court filing for the Court's 5 purposes, if necessary.

6 All right. I will see you at 2:15.

7 MR. STEINGLASS: Thank you. 8 (Matter adjourned to 2:15 p.m., at which time 9 Senior Court Reporter Laurie Eisenberg will relieve Senior 10 Court Reporter Lisa Kramsky as the official court reporter.)
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 11 *******
4343 1 (Whereupon, the case is recalled at 2:15 PM.)
2 THE COURT: Good afternoon.

3 Please be seated.

4 I want to thank you again for getting those joint 5 submissions in to me. I appreciate it. It was helpful.

6 You should also both feel free to provide a copy 7 of your submissions to the clerk. We'll make it part of 8 the court file.

9 You may both want to just initial whatever you 10 give her to make sure that it's accurate. 14 I received an email from Mr. Colangelo, dated May 15 13th, at 8:34 AM, with the proposed attachments.

17 Mr. Bove May 14th, at 9:09 AM.

18 I then received another email from Mr. Colangelo 19 on May 15th, at 5:37 PM. That was regarding the proposal 20 structure as to the remaining counts.

21 I received an email from Mr. Colangelo on May 22 17th, at 10:22 AM. That was the People's response to the 23 Defense proposal.

24 Those were the substantive emails that I
25 received. 11 First, I would like to go over what it is that I
12 received from you, just to make sure that I have 13 everything.

16 I received an email with attachments from 4344 1 Today, I also received four joint submissions.

2 I'm not sure what time the first two came in. 3 But, one of them, the first one, had to do with 4 -- the first one had to do with the proposal structure on 5 FECA. 6 The second one had to do with the proposal on 7 accomplice as a matter of law.

8 The third one was a joint submission regarding 11 Then, the last one was a joint submission 12 regarding Election Law Section 17-152 predicate.

19 the applicable parties. So, that was four transmittals 20 with six documents.

21 THE COURT: Okay. 22 I think that we've made some progress with the 23 joint submissions. 24 There are, obviously, a few issues that remain.

25 I would like to start by going through the 9 falsifying business records in the first degree and 10 several other charges. 13 Is there anything that you believe that you 14 submitted that I have not acknowledged? 15 MR. COLANGELO: No, your Honor. 16 Just to clarify that in those four transmittals 17 -- and I think the Court may have just mentioned this -- 18 we submitted six different joint proposed submissions on 4345 1 submissions I received today, so I can hear you further on 2 your respected positions.

3 Let's start with the proposal instructions on 4 FECA.

7 Can I hear from you on that?

8 MR. BOVE: Yes, your Honor.

9 Our position on FECA, here, because of the way 10 its positioned in the Government's theory of the case, 11 meaning no longer a predicate on the business records 12 count but now an unlawful activity as an object of the New 13 York Election Law conspiracy, that the FECA predicate in 14 that position, it has to be a criminal FECA violation.

15 Because a conspiracy to violate New York Election Law, 16 it's only a crime if it has a criminal object.

17 If it's a non-criminal violation, you're talking, 18 I submit, about a civil conspiracy, at most.

19 This is an issue, both, at the FECA level and 20 then when we talk about that one predicate charge that's 21 very, very important to us, which is New York Business Law 22 175.10 requires intent to either commit or conceal another 23 crime.

24 That other crime, now we know, is New York 25 Election Law.

5 On the first paragraph, I see that the Defense 6 requested the word "willfully" be added twice.

4346 1 But, there's no illegal conspiracy.

2 That's the key. It's got to be an illegal 3 conspiracy, unless the conspiracy's object, one of them, 4 is criminal.

5 So, it's not enough for the Government to 6 establish a civil violation of FECA or to suggest to the 7 jury that -- I understand that they don't have to prove a 8 substantive violation of FECA -- but to suggest that the 9 object conspiracy was a civil violation of FECA. Because 10 what we're talking about is a civil conspiracy, which 11 can't serve as a predicate for the business records 12 charges.

13 If I can cite some cases on the conspiracy to the 14 crime has to have a criminal object:
15 People v. Wisan, W-I-S-A-N. This is a Richmond 16 County case. It's a little vague in 1986. But, what it 17 says is that the United States Supreme Court has held, 18 time and again, that to be a criminal conspiracy, there 19 must be a criminal object.

20 And one of the Supreme Court cases cited in Wisan 21 is Grunewald v. United States, 353 U.S. 391 at 404, 405.

22 What that means to us, Judge, and why we're 23 asking for the "willfully" instruction when you talk about 24 FECA is that, otherwise, it would allow the jury to think 25 about the predicate offense and the objects of this 4347 6 That's a very serious concern for us.

7 That's why, starting with the FECA charge, we 8 requested your Honor instruct the jury in terms of 9 criminal offenses.

10 And, here, the FECA offense requires a "willful" 11 mens rea.

14 Federal tax predicate that they're seeking instructions 15 on.

18 respect to that charge.

19 So, I think it's also consistent with their 20 request.

21 But, even if they hadn't made that request, it's 22 critical for -- to make sure that the jury knows and is 23 required to find that the predicate of the 175.10 charge 24 is a criminal offense, and if the object isn't criminal, 25 then we're stuck with a civil conspiracy.

12 That's consistent, Judge -- last one -- with the 13 way that the Government has requested instructions on the 16 If you look at Page 6 of the Government's 17 request, they ask for a "willfully" instruction with 1 predicate offense in civil terms, and put President Trump 2 in a position where this jury could convict him based on a 3 flawed finding of some kind of intent to conceal a civil 4 conspiracy can elevate a civil misdemeanor charge up to a 5 felony.

4348 1 MR. COLANGELO: We heard that the disagreement 5 We oppose including that additional language 6 here, because the Election Law 17-152 violation occurs: 2 here is that for a violation of the criminal law of FECA,
3 it must be willful, but the willfulness standard is not 4 required for other violations of FECA.

7 "When two or more people conspired to promote someone's 8 election to a public office by unlawful means." Those are 9 the terms of the Election Law 17-152 statute. And by its 10 plain meaning, "unlawful" doesn't mean criminal. It means 11 violation of law.

12 There are cases holding as much, including People 13 v. Ivybrooke Equity Enterprises, 175 A.D.3d 1000.

14 And the Court of Appeals has long held that when 15 the legislature intends to make -- intends to refer to a 16 crime, it knows how to do so.

17 (Whereupon, Mr. Steinglass whispers to Mr.

18 Colangelo.)
19 MR. COLANGELO: Ivybrooke. I-V-Y-B-R-O-O-K-E.

20 So, the legislature could have enacted the 21 statute that referred to a conspiracy to promote or 22 prevent election by criminal means, but, instead, it chose 23 the word "unlawful".

24 Mr. Bove mentioned the case People v. Wisan.

25 Unless we missed it, I'm not sure it was briefed 4349 1 in the earlier submission.

2 I have not briefed that case.

3 If your Honor needs further analysis, we can take 4 a look.

5 But, the plain text of the statute provides that 6 Election Law conspiracy occurs when its intended results 7 are executed through unlawful means.

8 Because it doesn't need to be "criminal unlawful 9 means", there's no need to add the word "willful" into the 10 FECA charge.

11 MR. BOVE: Can I briefly respond to this one, 12 Judge?

13 THE COURT: Sure.

14 MR. BOVE: The Government's main case for this, 15 Ivybrooke, as your Honor sees in the briefing, it's a 20 And that's what they're seeking to do.

21 That's at the core here with respect to 22 "willfully" down at the FECA predicate.

23 But, again, when we start talking about New York 24 Election Law, that's extremely problematic.

25 And another reason that it is -- both sides have 16 civil case about Executive Law 63(12). That case does not 17 suggest -- provide any support for the Government's 18 position here, which is that a criminal conspiracy charge 19 can be supported by a civil object.

4350 4 quoting -- "conduct constituting a crime be performed."
5 So, I think the Supreme Court has been clear that 8 recognize that.

22 So, the crime is established through the 23 formation of a conspiracy and its execution through 24 unlawful means.

25 The legislature could have said "through criminal 1 relied on the CJI instructions, the conspiracy in the 2 sixth degree instruction that we relied upon, I think, is 3 pretty clear that: "The Defendant must intend" -- I'm 6 for a conspiracy to be criminal, it must have a criminal 7 object, and I think the New York Pattern Instructions 9 So, we think "willfully" is important here, and 10 that will sort of ride up the instructions as we talk 11 about this this afternoon.

12 THE COURT: On the heels of this -- I know we've 13 gone over this before.

14 Just looking at the Penal Law charge, falsifying 15 records in the first degree requires there be an intent to 16 defraud with intent to commit another crime.

17 How do you respond to that?

18 MR. COLANGELO: Your Honor, the other crime here 19 is the Election Law violation, which becomes a criminal 20 violation when any two or more persons conspire to promote 21 someone's election by unlawful means.

4351 1 means" and didn't.

2 There's two other points I would make in quick 3 response. One -- to what Mr. Bove just said.

4 One is that, more broadly, your Honor, and as you 5 previewed yesterday, and as you may have seen from our 6 proposed FECA charge, we think there's value, as you 7 indicated, in tailoring the "unlawful means" instructions 8 more narrowly and more concisely than in our original 9 proposal.

10 One of the reasons for that, as the Court held in 11 denying the Defendant's Omnibus Motions to dismiss, the 12 falsifying business records offense is committed when the 13 Defendant has the intent to defraud, that includes the 14 intent to commit or aid or conceal in the commission of 15 another crime.

16 But, the object crime doesn't need to be 17 completed, and there are cases the Court has cited where 18 the Defendant was acquitted of the object crime.

19 So, because we're now talking about -- and one 20 element of the predicate of the charged offense -- we 21 think it makes more sense for the Court not to burden the 22 jury with excessive verbiage we don't think is necessary 23 for the jury to accept what's necessary here.

24 MR. BOVE: This is a big one for us.

25 THE COURT: Sure.

4352 1 MR. BOVE: The problem for us, Judge, is that the 2 mens rea for the predicate, the 17-152 charge, the 3 conspiracy charge has to match the highest mens rea of the 4 objects. I think that's Black-letter law.

5 And so, all the points I've already made, I
6 think, stand on for this to be a criminal conspiracy, 7 there has to be a criminal object. But, in addition, that 8 "willfully" mens rea has to come up to the level of the 9 predicate; or, otherwise, again, we just have a civil 10 conspiracy, that it can't be used to elevate this to a 11 felony.

12 THE COURT: Thank you.

13 Let's go down to the next disputed area, which is 14 the last sentence in the first paragraph.

15 The Defense is requesting language that in 2015 16 and 2016, there was no limit on a candidate's ability to 17 contribute personal funds to his or her campaign.

18 Why do you need that instruction?

19 MR. BOVE: Judge, we're quoting the regulation, 20 and we're seeking that instruction because we want the 21 jury to have a full picture of what constitutes 22 "contributions" and "expenditures", and the third party 23 issue is significant in this case, but President Trump's 24 mental state and the Government's burden of proof on his 25 mental state also matters.

4353 1 So, here, what we want the jury to understand is 2 that as someone in President Trump's situation is 21 There's plenty of regulations on someone's 22 ability. The Regulations Act maintains candidates can make 23 contributions from personal funds.

24 It is worded inaccurately.

5 and there is testimony in the record about the campaign 6 having counsel -- would understand that he could have paid 7 this out of his personal expenses, without issue.

8 MR. COLANGELO: Your Honor, we oppose including 9 that sentence for the reason that the Court may have been 10 suggesting, which is that it's extraneous and totally 11 irrelevant to the facts of the case.

12 This case is not about a candidate's use of his 13 own personal expenses for his campaign or other purposes.

14 So, it has nothing to do with the case, is 15 extraneous, and will probably be confusing to the jury.

16 If the Court is inclined to include something 17 like this, which we think shouldn't be included, this 18 language is not a quote from the Regulations Act, is 19 misleading, including the reference to "no limit on 20 someone's ability".

3 evaluating potentially or allegedly proposed payments by 4 third parties, part of his understanding is somebody --
25 In any event, this is extraneous and confusing.

4354 1 THE COURT: Just to be clear, I'm reserving 2 decision on the "willfully" issue.

3 On the issue -- we're speaking about, now, the 4 2015 and 2016 limits -- I don't think that's necessary. I
5 don't think there's really a reasonable view of the 6 evidence here that requires that instruction.

16 clearly and unambiguously related to President Trump's 18 MR. BOVE: Yes, Judge.

19 So, you have the authorities we've cited in 20 support of that: the Leake case, L-E-A-K-E, Orloski, and 21 Wisconsin Right to Life.

22 Our position here is that this type of 23 instruction is necessary to make clear to the jury that 24 there is a zone of First-Amendment-protected activity 25 involved in this analysis, and what the Supreme Court has 7 You're certainly free to argue on summation that 8 if your client has certain wealth, he could have certainly 9 paid for this himself.

10 But, I don't think that that needs to come from 11 the bench, so I'm going to strike that.

12 Going down to the next paragraph, this is also a 13 Defense-disputed request.

14 The phrase, quote, "the purpose of influencing an 15 election," closed quote, requires proof that the activity 17 2016 campaign.

4355 1 done to carve out First Amendment-protected activity from 2 prohibited contributions is use language exactly like 3 this.

4 So, we think it's necessary for the jury to 5 understand that point, so that we can make arguments 6 around the fact of people's mental state as they were 7 thinking about these things in 2016, they would have 8 understood this type of restriction and that it was 9 required that the things they were doing be in clear 10 violation of the FECA Regulations and Provisions we're 11 talking about.

12 This is an accurate statement of the law. It's 13 describing a phrase that I think Buckley in the Supreme 14 Court said is ambiguous.

15 This is the kind of thing that we would have done 16 through Mr. Smith.

17 We understand the Court's ruling.

18 But, this is the type of content we were seeking 19 to provide to the jury about what these phrases mean.

20 So, we're asking your Honor do it in your 21 province of instructing the jury on the law.

22 MR. COLANGELO: We think this is not an accurate 23 statement of the law and is, in any event, both irrelevant 24 and superseded by other instructions we think the Court 25 will give.

4356 24 of a candidate's personal expenses, whether that's a 25 contribution or not.

6 Even the case he cited, the Fourth Circuit case, 7 North Carolina Right to Life v. Leake, L-E-A-K-E, we 8 believe has been either overruled or substantially 9 aggregated by a subsequent Fourth Circuit decision, Real 10 Truth Against Abortion, 681 F.3d 544.

11 It's not even clear at all this is a viable test 12 in the limited context in the Regulations on expressive 13 advocacy.

14 In any event, your Honor, it's not necessary to 15 define this term for a couple of other reasons.

16 One. As we discussed, we think the jury needs 17 less, not more, on FECA instructions; and we think the 18 term "for the purpose of influencing any election" is a 19 pretty straight-forward term that jurors can understand.

20 Second. We think to the extent the Court defines 21 the "irrespective of the candidacy" test, which we're 22 going to talk about, that test is going to be the test for 23 determining whether an individual third-party's payments 1 So, this "clearly and unambiguously related to" 2 test, as I think Mr. Bove acknowledged, only has arisen in 3 a separate context of regulations in expressive advocacy.

4 So, it's the proposed importation of a different test from 5 an entirely different context.

4357 3 space.

1 So, we don't need an additional gloss on some 2 other language that is, otherwise, already clear on that 4 THE COURT: So, what you're suggesting is that 5 paragraph simply read: The terms "contribution" and 6 "expenditure" include anything of value, including any 7 purchase, payment, loan, or advance made by any person for 8 the purpose of influencing any election for Federal 9 office; period?

10 MR. COLANGELO: Correct, your Honor. That's the 11 People's request.

12 THE COURT: I agree.

13 I think that the concerns that you have, that 14 you're expressing, will be expressed in other areas of the 15 charge.

16 I think that here it becomes confusing.

17 Some of the issues are confusing enough, I think.

18 We want to make it as easy as possible for the 19 jury.

20 Let's go down to the next paragraph.

21 Here, the People made a request. It says that: A
22 candidate for Federal Office does not have to be the sole 23 or only motivation for the third-party's payment, so long 24 as the payment would not have been made but for the 25 candidate's status as a candidate for Federal Office.

4358 1 MR. COLANGELO: Thank you, your Honor.

2 So, the preceding sentence in that paragraph 7 irrespective of the candidacy.

8 Our purpose in adding this additional language 9 was twofold.

10 First, the "irrespective of the candidacy" and 11 the way the language appears in the Regulation is not, on 17 And this gloss that we've identified in this 18 additional sentence is language directly from an FEC
19 advisory opinion, which is a binding and definitive 20 interpretation of FECA issued by the Commission and that 21 the Commission has looked to define when something is 22 "irrespective of a candidate".

23 That's the first reason.

24 The second reason is that there's been factual 25 testimony -- and we anticipate this will be a contested 6 contribution. That's when it would not have been made 12 its face, the most artful turn of phrase, and we thought 13 it might be a useful explanation for the jury, to help 14 them understand: What does it mean for a third-party's 15 payment of a personal candidate's personal expenses to be 16 done irrespective of the candidacy?

3 identifies -- which the parties have agreed on, identifies 4 the regulatory definition for when a third-party's payment 5 of a candidate's special expenses counts as a 4359 23 We think -- we are in agreement, as reflected 24 here, on the first sentence about the "irrespective rule".

25 Then we've endeavored in the ones we're going to 1 point on summations -- regarding what the different 2 motivations were for executing the Karen McDougal payment 3 and the Stormy Daniels payment.

4 So, we thought this is an important point, that 5 there's some additional explanation for the jury regarding 6 what it means to pay someone's personal expenses and 7 whether he would have done it irrespective of the 8 candidacy or not.

9 THE COURT: What's your concern with that phrase?

10 MR. BOVE: The concern, Judge, is that the Harvey 11 advisory opinion that's being relied upon doesn't actually 12 involve an inquiry into the subjective intent of the 13 person making the payment, because in the Harvey advisory 14 opinion, that person wrote in and said: This is what I'm 15 going to do, this is my intention.

16 So, before the Commission on those circumstances, 17 there was objective, clear evidence of what the motivation 18 for the payment was.

19 So, this -- whatever the language is in this 20 opinion -- in the Harvey opinion, it doesn't support 21 inviting the jury to try to make an analysis of a mixed 22 motive behind these payments.

4360 1 talk about next, to quote from other authorities that 2 provide the jury with some guidance about the types of 19 So, this -- the language that's proposed 22 considerations.

23 We don't think that's supported.

24 THE COURT: You obtained the examples that you 25 proposed from where?

5 THE COURT: So, you're in agreement on the first 6 sentence regarding the "irrespective rule"?

7 The People submit that the sentence that they're 8 adding helps define what that means.

9 Your position is that in this context, it's 10 actually a bit confusing, but you propose additional 11 language that follows?

12 MR. BOVE: We propose examples to give the jury a 13 sense as to how the FEC has applied it.

14 Our concern with the yellow highlighting that is 15 at issue right now is that this is not an authoritative 16 determination by the FEC. What it is is an advisory 17 opinion on a set of facts that included objective evidence 18 of the person's intent. 20 extrapolates from that advisory opinion to invite the jury 21 to make some mixed motive determinations about subjective 3 situations where this "irrespective" test is met and not 4 met.

4361 1 MR. BOVE: The next sentence, Judge, begins, 2 "There are a new number of issues," is a verbatim quote 8 THE COURT: Let me read it into the record.

9 There are a number of issues arising with a 10 candidate's personal situation that may become campaign 11 issues, that expenses arising from such controversies are 12 not necessarily campaign expenses.

13 The political impact of legal issues on a 14 campaign would not, by itself, justify the treatment of 15 any legal expenses as campaign related. Legal expenses are 16 not campaign related unless the underlying activities have 17 some impact on the campaign.

24 And the examples that you're providing in the 25 middle I find somewhat confusing.

18 If the payment had been made in the absence of 19 the candidacy, the payment should not be treated as a 20 contribution.

21 It seems to me that that very last sentence that 22 you're proposing is very similar to the sentence that the 23 People are proposing above.

3 from MUR 4944, which is an analyst by the FEC relating to 4 loans to the Clinton family that I think both sides have 5 cited. It's in the footnotes.

6 But, these are -- we're quoting nearly verbatim 7 from those authorities.

4362 1 Why don't we just leave in that very last 2 sentence, which sums it up? I think it sums it up very 3 well.

4 If the payment would have been made, even in the 5 absence of the candidacy, the payment should not be 6 treated as a contribution.

7 MR. BOVE: I think that that is an accurate 8 restatement or summary of the "irrespective rule"; and I
9 think the way it is different there, the Government's 10 proposal is that it -- in yellow, is that it does not 17 the expert.

21 We didn't make up examples. 25 MR. COLANGELO: A couple of things. 11 invite a mixed motive analysis; and that's why the last 12 one is accurate, the one we put forward.

13 We do think, as your Honor noted, this is an area 14 that is technical and somewhat confusing.

15 This is something that -- we understand the 16 Court's ruling -- that we would have sought to do through 18 We are asking your Honor to provide examples so 19 the jury has a picture -- again, we're not asking to you 20 make up examples. 22 We're really trying to, quote, carefully -- and 23 if we missed a word or two, let's fix it -- but get this 24 very carefully from things the FEC said before.

1 We agree with the Court that the first three 4363 2 sentences in blue are, both, confusing and extraneous.

3 They describe circumstances that aren't present in this 9 That is a motion we briefed at the Motion in 10 Limine stage, and we gave the Court two pages of authority 11 for looking at whether a payment would have been made 12 irrespective of a candidacy is a subjective test. That's 13 how you determine whether a payment would be made 18 That's a document we filed on February 29th.

21 So, for that reason, we think the sentence that 22 the People proposed is the better explanation of the 23 "irrespective" test than the final sentence in that 24 paragraph that the Defense proposed.

25 If the Court is inclined to go with the final 14 irrespective of the candidacy or not. You have to look at 15 the reasons.

16 And these authorities are cited in our Opposition 17 to the Defendant's Motions in Limine at Page 13 to 14.

19 We think the "it's subjective" evaluation is the 20 way that Regulation is applied.

4 case. We're not talking about campaign expenses paid for 5 by a campaign, so we think they're confusing and 6 extraneous.

7 Mr. Bove has opposed the sentence highlighted in 8 yellow in that it suggests a subjective test.

4364 6 THE COURT: So, I'm going to reserve decision on 7 this.

8 But, right now, my inclination is that I'm 9 actually going to insert the People's sentence and your 22 I don't have a major problem with that. 24 press function is a broad concept", and I can keep what 25 you have before that and what you have after that?

10 last sentence. I think that they both work together.

11 And I'm going to remove the examples that you 12 provided in the middle.

13 Again, I'm reserving decision on that.

14 That's my inclination right now.

15 Let's go down to the very last disputed exception 16 here regarding the press exemption.

17 Mr. Bove, you request that the following be 18 added: This is called a press exemption, given that the 19 press function is a broad concept -- for example, the term 20 "legitimate press function" includes solicitation letters, 21 seeking news subscribers to the publication.

23 Why can't we just strike the phrase "legitimate 1 sentence in the Defense paragraph, we do think it would 2 need to refer to a third-party's payment, because those 3 are the circumstances we're talking about here; and that 4 sentence does not, right now, refer to if a third party 5 would have made the payment.

4365 24 If we're going to be giving examples, it seems 25 odd to select that one over other ones, including, for 1 MR. BOVE: That would be fine with us.

2 Thank you.

3 MR. COLANGELO: So, your Honor, we definitely 4 agree with striking the argumentative sentence regarding 5 the "broad concept".

6 We think the other language that the Court just 7 read into the record and that we highlighted in blue is 8 unnecessary for a couple of reasons.

9 First, we think, again, "normal and legitimate 10 press function", especially against the facts that have 11 already been elicited during this trial, is a concept that 12 the jury will be likely to understand without unnecessary 13 additional instruction and that the parties can argue on 14 summations. We're not sure any further explanation of that 15 term is necessary.

16 If it is, the problem with the last sentence here 17 -- which we acknowledge is drawn from the fact-pattern in 18 one of the cases cited in the footnote. The problem with 19 that last sentence is a little bit confusing because it 20 has nothing to do with the circumstances of this case.

21 "Sending solicitation letters", "seeking new 22 subscribers", it's hard to see how that explains to the 23 jury what a normal, legitimate press function is.

4366 1 example, the FEC's exception when it came to the FEC
2 involvement in the facts of this case.

19 We proposed an attenuated example to stay away 24 In terms of AMI's Conciliatory Agreement, we 3 FEC involvement was not a function of its limited 4 activity, but, instead, fell outside that for four 5 reasons. We outlined those four factors in the proposal we 6 sent to the Court last week. We stripped it out, following 7 the Court's guidance yesterday, to be a little more 8 concise.

9 If the Court is inclined to include an exception, 10 we think it should be something closer to the facts of the 11 case that the jury is likely to understand and not a 12 confusing and attenuated example about solicitation 13 records that were referenced in a District Court case from 14 1981.

15 MR. BOVE: So, the issue for us, Judge, is that 16 this concept, "normal, legitimate press function" -- I'm 17 quoting from the preceding sentence -- it is actually an 18 extremely broad concept as interpreted by the FEC. 20 from the facts of this case, so the jury can have a sense 21 of, in our view, why this is very broad and, at the same 22 time, not get a legal instruction that as a metaphor of 23 law goes one way or another on AMI's facts.

25 don't think that represents a "legitimate press function" 4367 1 for this case, that the press exception didn't apply.

2 There's evidence in the record that AMI wanted to 3 resolve these things and move on.

4 You remember Mr. Pecker's testimony.

5 There was a large transaction in escrow. They 6 wanted to resolve their business and close, so they could 7 move forward.

8 It applied on the Non-Prosecution Agreement for 9 fact-findings to support what it was doing in that case.

10 Neither of these Agreements addressed or grappled 11 with the fact that AMI did publish articles and do things 12 for Karen McDougal pursuant to that Agreement that were 13 within -- I think it would be hard to dispute -- within a 14 normal, legitimate press function.

15 Those are not facts that the FEC --
16 THE COURT: I think we're better off staying away 17 from any facts too close to parallel the facts of this 18 case.

19 I don't see any prejudice to the People in any 20 way by saying: Listen, sending out solicitation letters, 21 seeking new subscribers would be a legitimate press 22 function.

23 I don't see any harm to the People in including 24 that.

25 And you don't object to striking the "legitimate 4368 1 press function is a broad concept"; right?

2 MR. BOVE: No, your Honor.

3 THE COURT: All right.

4 That's how we're going to go with that one.

5 Turning to the submission regarding "accomplice 6 as a matter of law", it really comes down to the same 7 thing, three times over again, of the Defense is 10 The People are requesting that the term 11 "participated in" and "was convicted of two crimes" be 12 used and, also, the phrase "the accomplice".

13 Why do you think we need to add "and convicted of 14 two crimes"? 22 bracketed language in the CJI is it's to be given if it's 23 applicable.

24 THE COURT: Okay.

25 Why don't we just give "participated in"?

8 requesting that the phrase "participated in the crime" be 9 used and that the name "Cohen" be used.

15 MR. STEINGLASS: That language is straight out of 16 the CJI. It's bracketed language. Not the "two crimes".

17 It says "convicted of a crime".

18 In this case, it's two crimes.

19 If you want to make it single, that's fine.

20 I thought it was misleading to make it only one.

21 That's bracketed language, and the way I read the 4369 1 That's applicable also.

2 MR. STEINGLASS: Actually, if you look at the 3 CJI, it says "participated in", and then, in brackets, 4 "and was convicted of".

7 case.

19 prejudice to the Defendant as a result of that.

20 It seems to me like right now we're really 21 playing with fire or getting very close to that.

22 Wouldn't it be safer to just have "participated 23 in"?

24 MR. STEINGLASS: Well, that argument that you're 25 suggesting would apply every single time there was --
8 I think that that's consistent in the way the CJI
9 brackets information on every charge, to be given if it's 10 applicable in this case.

11 And it certainly is applicable in this case.

12 THE COURT: The danger is that then we get into 13 the concern that the Defense had regarding Mr. Cohen's 14 convictions being used as an inference that because he was 15 convicted or because he pled guilty, then, therefore, 16 Mr. Trump would also be guilty.

17 I'm sure you recall that we gave a number of 18 limiting instructions to ensure that there was no 5 So, what I'm suggesting is the bracketed language 6 is to be given if it's applicable to the facts of this 4370 1 somebody had been convicted -- an accomplice had been 2 convicted of a crime, which would render the language 3 completely superfluous. 4 THE COURT: Let's talk about this case. 5 MR. STEINGLASS: As your Honor pointed out, you 6 have instructed the jury several times about the proper 7 use of that guilty plea and improper use of that guilty 8 plea. 9 We have no objection to you doing that again as 10 part of the charge, to re-reading that limiting 11 instruction. 12 But, I think the evidence is more in this case 13 than just "participated in". It's "participated in and 14 convicted of". And I think that's what the CJI 15 contemplates. 16 (Whereupon, Senior Court Reporter Theresa 17 Magniccari relieves Senior Court Reporter Laurie 18 Eisenberg, and the transcript continues on the following 19 page.) 20 21 22 23 24 25 4371 1 (Whereupon, the proceedings were continued from 2 previous page:)
3 ***
4 THE COURT: I think what we can do is, strike the 5 convicted of language. Leave participated in.

6 If the defendant in any way tries to take 7 advantage of that ruling by arguing on summation that he 8 was convicted of these two other crimes, and not convicted 9 of this other one, then you can certainly argue that the 12 MR. BOVE: I think as you flagged, this issue is 13 also extremely important to us that the limiting 14 instruction that you have given in making sure that in 15 summation we don't open the door to changing that limiting 20 plural.

21 And part of the reason is it's not the two FECA
22 violations.

23 It's the Government's theory that Mr. Cohen 24 participated in the 34 charged crimes, and so, crimes 25 plural is accurate and wouldn't draw undue attention to the 10 door has been opened. You could then -- or I could add 11 this language to my instructions.

16 instruction, and also policing the line that the Government 17 is not arguing anything is traversing it.

18 Here, I think the correct thing to do would be to 19 just make our crime -- where we have singular -- make it 4372 1 issues that you're flagging, and I think it's the 2 appropriate way to go and the right balance.

3 THE COURT: That's fine. We can make crimes 15 MR. BOVE: We understand and reviewed this 16 guidance and will follow it as closely as we can.

17 THE COURT: We're going to change the wording to 18 crimes plural.

19 All right.

20 MR. STEINGLASS: There is also the matter of the 21 accomplice versus Cohen.

22 THE COURT: Yes.

23 STEINGLASS: I don't think this is a highly 24 critical issue, but this has changed. This changed. The 25 CJI says, accomplice, except in the first paragraph where 6 appear as if those were the only crimes that he pled guilty 7 to or the only violations that he pled guilty to, that 8 could open the door to the People making further argument.

9 They still can't go so far as to say that because 10 Mr. Cohen was found guilty or pled guilty to a particular 11 crime, therefore it's more likely than not that Mr. Trump 12 is guilty of that. They can't go there. But it will open 13 the door to them being able to bring up what the 14 convictions were.

4 plural. But my caution still applies, that if you try to 5 bring up the convictions to the guilty pleas and make it 4373 1 it names the accomplice. So I will just take the CJI and 2 refer to him thereafter as accomplice.

3 THE COURT: You should know going forward for the 4 rest of this conference and beyond, where there is standard 5 pattern jury instructions, I don't deviate. If there is 6 really a good reason, I will, but I won't just for the sake 10 So if here the language is accomplice, that's what 11 we'll go with.

12 Okay. All right.

13 Let's look at the joint submission that came in at 14 is 11:26.

15 Let's begin with the most challenging submission 16 facing all of us, which is how you pronounce this word, 23 Can we just delete it?

24 MR. STEINGLASS: No objection.

25 COURT REPORTER: Can you spell that, please.

17 "eleemosynary." I've said it one hundred times and I still 18 can't get it right.

19 MR. STEINGLASS: You won't get any help from us.

20 THE COURT: My suggestion would be, why do we even 21 have it. I don't think we need it. It's not relevant to 22 the facts of this case.

7 of it. A lot of really smart people put a lot of hard work 8 into coming up with those instructions. There is no reason 9 to mess with it.

4374 23 And, so, we just think there is really no reason 24 at all to alter the standard practice. We think the Court 25 should stick with the standard charge for the definition of 1 THE COURT: E-L-E-E-M-O-S-Y-N-A-R-Y. Which means 2 charity. But we'll move to strike it.

3 Let's go down to the next one.

4 For the definition of intent, the People propose 5 to add, "Thus, a person acts with intent to defraud, when 6 his or her conscious objective or purpose is to do so."
7 The defense suggests, "Thus, a person acts with 8 intent to defraud, when his or her conscious objective or 9 purpose is to lead another into error or to disadvantage."
10 MR. COLANGELO: Thank you, your Honor.

11 So, the first sentence your Honor just read is not 12 the People's proposal. That is verbatim from the CJI
13 charge.

14 As the Court just said, that's the pattern charge 15 for a reason. We think there is absolutely no basis for 16 deviating from it in this case.

17 The second sentence the Court read, the defense 18 proposal, is a citation from the language from the Practice 19 Commentary, but even that Practice Commentary citation 20 refers to a concurring opinion in a court case that talks 21 about what intent to defraud has been suggested to be 22 defined as.

4375 1 intent. 5 MR. BOVE: The reason that we propose it, Judge, 6 and, obviously, both sides propose some expansion on the 24 So, what we did was pull from the statutory 25 commentary to try and emphasize this point about what 7 intent to defraud element, we proposed it here based on 8 Judge Donnino's Commentaries for this reason: The way this 9 case is now structured, you have the business record 10 charge, and the Government's argument will be, at least in 11 part, that President Trump sought to conceal a conspiracy.

12 So, in that context, that's a very complicated 13 legal concept.

14 Our position is, a criminal conspiracy, this is 15 17-152, Election Law Conspiracy between parties, that the 16 Government will make arguments about, it was a private 17 secret agreement. And then President Trump tried to 18 conceal a private secret agreement of others.

19 We think in that context, where the Government's 20 burden requires proof that the President sought to conceal 21 a conspiracy, an in coed agreement, not a substantive 22 crime, that more emphasis on these intent elements is 23 required.

2 THE COURT: Mr. Bove, this seems like one of those 3 situations where clearly it does deviate from the standard 4 charge, and I don't see a reason to do that.

4376 1 intent to defraud should mean here under these 2 circumstances.

3 THE COURT: I appreciate your argument. I'm 4 going to stick with the standard language.

5 It continues on the next page.

8 MR. BOVE: If I could, Judge. The carry-over 9 language on Page 2, "A person causes a false entry when,"
10 I'm not sure that is from the CJI.

11 THE COURT: You're right.

12 Let me hear from you.

13 MR. BOVE: The issue here, Judge, is -- this would 14 put the jury in a situation where they could convict based 15 on someone else causing a false entry and accessorial 16 liability. It basically puts someone causing the causer --
17 it is a situation where Allen Weisselberg caused someone to 18 do something and President Trump causes Allen Weisselberg.

19 It doubles up on the concept of accessorial 20 liability. It should be struck and we should go with the 21 accessorial liability.

22 THE COURT: I am in agreement with it. I don't 23 like the foreseeable consequence on that. I am going to 24 strike that portion.

25 MR. COLANGELO: If I could be heard, a few 6 Turning then to the expanded charge on intent.

7 Why do you oppose that?

4377 1 sentences on that.

2 We think this is an extremely important concept 9 The Court's authority under CPL 300.10 (2) to 10 charge the jury, includes instructing the jury on material 11 legal principles that are important to the case.

12 We think the concept of made or caused, 13 particularly because of how the defense says it, both 14 presented the case in opening and indicating that they 15 intend to argue it in summation, we think that's a critical 16 concept. And the reasonably foreseeable language that we 17 included here is drawn directly from the case law, 18 including the four cases that we cited in footnote that the 19 Court referenced in our proposal.

20 There is no disagreement, we don't understand 21 there to be, that causing false entries occurs when the 22 falsification of those entries is the reasonably 23 foreseeable consequence in this action.

24 So, we think it does not, in fact, merge the 25 accomplice problem, which is a critical instruction to the 5 The defense made extensive arguments in opening -- this is 6 at the transcript Page 893 to 895. Sort of a lengthy 7 discussion of the fact that the defendant did not himself 8 enter the accounting records directly.

3 for the Court to charge the jury on. In part, because of 4 how the defense presented the case in opening statement.

4378 1 jury, to approach and understand the facts of this case.

2 MR. BOVE: Each of the cases cited by the 3 Government for this proposition are not -- they don't 7 error.

8 Number one, this concept that I've already 9 articulated, it would put the jury in the position of 10 finding the President guilty of causing the causer two 11 steps of accessorial liability. That's number one.

12 Problem number two is made clear by the CJI charge 13 on accessorial liability. There has to be corresponding 14 intent. To tell the jury at this point in the instruction, 15 you can find causation based on reasonable foreseeability, 16 but de-couple that from the intent requirement, would make 17 this completely wrong as a matter of law.

18 MR. COLANGELO: Just two quick points. 20 Mr. Weisselberg to make or cause Jeffrey McConney or 21 Deborah Tarasoff to make false entries.

22 But, second, the cases directly support the legal 23 instruction that we propose.

24 The People versus Miles case, for example, is the 25 affirmative conviction of a defendant who was convicted of 19 First, the defendant could act in concert with 4 support -- they're not jury instruction cases at all. One 5 of them, Murray, is an accessorial liability case.

6 Legally, there are two reasons this would be 4379 1 falsifying business records by attaching jumper cables to 2 the electrical box outside his home, and in doing so, 3 making or causing false entries in the records of the power 4 plant.

5 Nobody said he went into the power company's power 6 accumulation system and altered how the billing records 22 And it goes on to say, "It doesn't matter what the 23 relative contribution was to the crime of each of the 24 defendants.

25 Why is this basically not duplicative of that?

7 were going to coming out, but applying jumper cables 8 supported the conviction.

9 So, on facts like the ones we have here, and given 10 the way the parties have had to argue the case, we think 11 this is a very straightforward explanation of the law that 12 is important for the jury to understand.

13 THE COURT: My only question: Isn't this already 14 covered in the definition of accomplice liability?

15 If you look at the second page, the entire 16 definition, the second page, the second full paragraph 17 says, "The People have the burden of proving beyond a 18 reasonable doubt that the defendant acted with state of 19 mind required for the commission of the crime, and either 20 personally, or by acting in concert with another person, 21 committed each of the remaining elements of the crime."
4380 4 cause a false entry.

1 MR. COLANGELO: I don't think it's duplicative of 2 that, irrespective of the accessorial concept. There is a 3 threshold definitional question about what it means to 5 So, we think acting in concert does not, in fact, 6 capture this issue. The defendant causes false entries 7 when he sets this scheme in motion and that's a reasonably 8 foreseeable consequence of that action.

9 MR. BOVE: Judge, the Miles case that we're 10 talking about is a sufficiency analysis after the fact. 20 language from the charges.

25 THE COURT: So, we'll leave it. I think it's an 11 It doesn't support providing instruction. That, as your 12 Honor said, would be duplicative.

13 I think really the central issue is, you cannot 14 de-couple the accessorial liability mens rea and just give 15 this instruction here without that.

16 This whole thing is required. That is what the 17 jury needs to find to return a verdict.

18 THE COURT: I will reserve decision on that.

19 Right now my inclination is to strike that 21 Looking at the expanded charge of intent, why does 22 the defense oppose the entire charge?

23 MR. BOVE: We are just following your Honor's less 24 is more guidance on this one.

4381 1 appropriate charge.

2 You also oppose intent to defraud. Tell me why.

22 So, we think to use this language, you know, we 23 know everybody is trying to put themselves in the best 24 position. We understand what we're doing here, but this is 25 just that. It's their argument. We're not going to be 3 MR. BOVE: I think very much for at least similar, 4 if not, the same reasons that our proposal was stricken.

5 This elaborates in ways that are favorable to the 6 Government and not entirely accurate as matter of law on a 7 definition that your Honor seems inclined to let stand on 8 its own based on the CJI charge.

9 There is also, I think, a very significant issue 10 with suggesting -- with instructing the jury that intent to 11 defraud could include defrauding a Government in the voting 12 public based on the facts of this case. We raised it in a 13 footnote to our request.

14 The issue is under Tavares, a Court of Appeals 15 case the Government cites, we're dealing with enhanced 16 intent element to elevate this to a felony, and if the jury 17 is permitted to find that intent to defraud includes intent 18 to defraud the Government, it really leaves nothing for the 19 part of the concealment mens rea because the Government's 20 theory is that involved a conspiracy to defraud the 21 Government in the voting public.

4382 25 One other point here, your Honor, unlike in the 1 making arguments along these lines. But this instruction 2 would, at a minimum, be confusing, we submit legal error, 3 because it will permit the jury to return a guilty verdict 4 by merging intent to defraud and the other part of the 5 enhancement element.

6 MR. COLANGELO: This is not argument. Every 7 sentence we cited here is anchored in the Court's ruling, 8 in the Court's decision on Omnibus Motion. So, there was 9 argument. We had argument last Fall. We briefed it 10 extensively to the Court. The Court ruled.

11 In your Honor's own words, and acknowledging 12 controlling case law, defined "intent to defraud," and in 13 the next section "intent to commit or conceal another 14 crime."
15 So, these two sections, both intent to defraud and 16 intent to commit or conceal another crime, are drawn 17 directly from this Court's existing analysis of those two 18 elements of the offense.

19 And we think under CPL 300.10, this is a perfect 20 example of an instance where the charging obligations 21 should include explaining to the jury how the facts of the 22 case apply to the law, particularly because the 23 circumstances like intent to defraud the Government, or 24 intent to defraud the voting public are germane here.

4383 6 So if there is anywhere that it makes sense to 9 crime.

23 I don't think that is in dispute. That is what I
24 ruled earlier, and it is the law.

1 FECA charge, for example, where we agree that it makes a 2 lot of sense for the Court to take a less is more approach 3 because there the Court was considering charging language 4 on an unlawful means element of a predicate offense, these 5 are actual definitional terms in the charged crime.

7 give the jury more guidance, it's in defining terms like 8 intent to defraud and intent to conceal or commit another 10 The Court took a similar approach in the Trump 11 Corporation tax fraud case by defining when the defendants 12 wrongfully took, obtained or withheld money from their 13 owner in order to support larceny charges. And the Court 14 referred to the owner as the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.

15 And so, this is an approach the Court adopted in 16 other cases, and we think the additional language here is 17 warranted.

18 THE COURT: I will reserve on that. I don't have 19 a problem with the very last sentence. It's a full 20 paragraph. Intent to defraud is not constricted to an 21 intent to deprive another of property or money. In fact, 22 intent to defraud can extend beyond economic concerns.

25 MR. BOVE: I agree, that it's not something we're 4384 1 arguing. It's what your Honor ruled. It is in dispute for 2 the record. We understand the Court's ruling.

3 Our position is, that unless we open the door to 4 that type of instruction, it would be a mistake here under 25 So, should the jury be instructed about what they 5 the circumstances of this case to be instructing the jury 6 how to negate about what they do not have to find.

7 The Government has a serious burden of proof here 8 and unless we've opened the door to arguments like this, 9 these instructions, and there is a couple of more in the 10 next section about what the Government doesn't have to do, 11 they're really not appropriate.

12 THE COURT: I think the Government would still 13 have to prove that there was an intent to deprive another.

14 What they don't have to prove is that it was property or 15 money. They have to prove that it was something.

16 Right?

17 MR. BOVE: I agree with that, Judge, and I submit 18 that we capture that accurately by quoting Judge Donnino.

19 And the issue now that we're going back and forth 20 on, does the Court need to take one step further in a 21 situation where we're not taking this argument. We 22 understand the Court's ruling; I don't think we opened the 23 door to it, and we will not open the door to it in 24 closing.

4385 1 don't have to find with respect to the Government's 2 burden?

3 And we think that things like that sort of 4 diminish things in the case and what the Government has to 5 do here.

6 THE COURT: I don't think this turns on whether 7 you opened the door or not. The People have a burden of 8 proof. It is a very high burden of proof. They have to 9 prove every element of the offenses beyond a reasonable 10 doubt. I don't think they have to raise a particular 11 element or a particular facet of an element that they 12 directly attack, before they make an attempt to prove 13 element.

14 But I will hear from you.

19 controlling definition of intent to defraud. We think 20 given the facts of this case, it is perfectly appropriate 21 that the jury be instructed on this.

22 THE COURT: Yes.

23 MR. BOVE: We understand the way your Honor is 24 inclined. But, if that is the case, if we're going to tell 25 the jury what they're not required to prove, why would we 15 MR. COLANGELO: I am not sure I have anything to 16 add to what the Court just said.

17 We think, as your Honor has acknowledged, this 18 is -- and as the Court already held, this is the 4386 1 not also tell them -- give them some greater concept of 2 what the Government is required to prove. And I am 3 referring back to the sentence that we proposed, with a 4 pretty authoritative commentary about what the statute 8 THE COURT: What are you referring to?

9 MR. BOVE: The blue language on Page 1 associated 10 with Footnote 6.

11 THE COURT: But, that's a different heading.

12 That's a different subject.

13 MR. BOVE: It's not. We worked very hard to get 14 these documents together for the Court. There are two 15 sentences here that both relate to intent to defraud.

16 My point is this: If there is going to be sort of 17 an expanded instruction on intent to defraud, we would ask 18 that your Honor carefully consider giving the language we 19 proposed, "A person acts with intent to defraud, when his 20 or her conscious objective or purpose is to lead another 21 into error or disadvantage."
5 means, from somebody who looked at the issue very closely, 6 but maybe it compromises to do both, to give what we 7 propose --
22 And, then, I'm reading some tea leaves here, your 23 Honor, is inclined to give the jury sort of a constraining 24 instruction on that term, and say it doesn't have to be an 25 economic disadvantage. We understand that, but we think 4387 1 that is the balanced way to go forward.

2 MR. COLANGELO: The problem with revisiting that 3 sentence, your Honor, is that it's not an accurate 4 characterization of the law, notwithstanding that it comes 5 from the Practice Commentaries.

6 I mention, again, that it refers only to a 7 suggestion and concurring opinion. But, as your Honor 8 already held in the Court's Omnibus Opinion, that intent to 9 defraud does not need to be directed at any person or a 10 specific person. So the reference to leading another into 11 error just does -- is not a statement of the law as the 12 Court has acknowledged already.

13 THE COURT: Let's move on to intent to commit or 14 conceal another crime. Tell me why you are opposing that?

15 MR. BOVE: It's a very similar issue, so I don't 16 need to belabor it. These are further instructions 17 extrapolated from case law and from your Honor's pretrial 18 rulings. We understand and have adhered to it, both the 19 effect of giving an instruction like this is to, again, 20 calling the jury's attention to things that the Government 21 does not have to prove, which we are not suggesting that 22 they have to prove.

23 So, there is a lot of yellow on this page and the 24 preceding page. What we perceived here is a risk of burden 25 shifting and diminishing the burden that your Honor talked 4388 1 about that is very significant for the People here.

2 And so, to say things about what they do not have 3 to prove, where we haven't argued otherwise, we don't think 4 this is an issue for the jury to be instructed on.

5 MR. COLANGELO: We don't think there is any burden 6 shifting risk here. Although, this language isn't in the 7 pattern charge, similar language does exist in other 8 pattern charges.

9 So, for example, the standard jury instruction on 10 accessorial liability reads, "In order to find the 11 defendant guilty, however, you need not be unanimous on 12 whether the defendant committed the crime personally or by 13 acting in concert with another, or both."
14 So the CJI standard charges do include this kind 15 of language regarding what the Government need not prove 16 in circumstances where it would otherwise be confusing for 17 the jury not to get an instruction like that.

18 The reasonable doubt charges also says what the 19 People don't have to prove.

23 predicate, we think it would be particularly confusing for 24 the jury not to be told what they are to make of the 25 instruction they are about to get regarding the Election 20 And then, your Honor, again, particularly where we 21 are going to be going into some detail regarding the 22 contours of the object crime, the intended crime, the 4389 1 Law Violation and then regarding the unlawful means to 2 support the Election Law Violation.

3 We think there is a significant risk that would 23 way that the Government's charges are not structured, this 24 idea that there needs to be, from our perspective, intent 25 to defraud, but some kind of intent with respect to in coed 4 retire into the deliberation room and wonder, do we have to 5 believe that all of these other crimes were committed. We 6 think this is a central part or important part of the 7 Court's charge to the jury.

8 THE COURT: Let's jump ahead to the final one on 9 this submission list I am concerned about. I am concerned 10 about all of them, but I am particularly concerned about 11 this one on Page 4, which reads, "That the defendant did so 12 with intent to defraud, that included an intent to commit 13 another crime, or to aid or conceal the commission 14 thereof."
15 The defense then proposes adding the language, 16 "Thus, for the second element, the People must establish 17 beyond a reasonable doubt two separate intents, the intent 18 to defraud, and the intent to aid or conceal the commission 19 of another crime, which I will define for you shortly."
20 MR. BOVE: We're quoting there, again, from the 21 Practice Commentaries, recognizing that it's not the CJI.

22 It's an important point here because, again, the 4390 23 Obviously, we agree that the People have to 24 establish two elements, an intent to defraud and that the 25 intent to defraud includes an intent to commit or conceal 1 conspiracy. That is the New York Election Law 17-152 2 predicate.

3 So, under those circumstances where the jury is 4 being asked to evaluate, not only intent to defraud, but 5 the present intent with respect to in coed promise, that 6 this bears emphasis in the same way that your Honor seems 7 inclined to place some emphasis on the other parts of the 8 175.10 instruction that we just went through. This is an 9 issue we feel was appropriate.

10 MR. COLANGELO: This proposed language is 11 inconsistent with the text of the statute, which says, 12 "That a person is guilty of falsifying business records in 13 the first degree, when he commits the crime of falsifying 14 business records in the second degree, and when his intent 15 to defraud includes an intent to commit another crime or to 16 aid or conceal the commission thereof."
17 There is nothing in the statute about two separate 18 intents. The Donnino Commentary doesn't cite any cases 19 regarding charging language of how the jury is supposed to 20 understand the statute, and the text of this statute alone, 21 contemplating the notion that the same set of facts could 22 satisfy both intents.

4391 1 or aid another crime.

2 But the fact that there is a separate element for 3 the first degree felony offense doesn't mean they're 4 separate intents. It would rewrite the statute to give 5 this instruction.

6 THE COURT: The first question appears to be 7 semantics, but it's not. It's a material change in the 8 statute.

13 incorporated by reference into the first.

14 So, it reads: That the defendant did so with 15 intent to defraud. That's the intent. That included an 16 intent to commit another crime. It's not a separate set of 17 mens rea, separate requirement of intent. It's a 18 requirement that that be a part of the intent.

19 So I'm not going to change the statute. I am 20 going to read it exactly as it is.

21 You also submitted some standard jury charges, 22 which I don't think -- I don't think we need to go over 23 unless under the section of inconsistent statements, there 24 is an objection to inserting the language, "That you may 25 consider whether a witness testified to a fact here at 10 I understand what the Commentary is referring to.

11 I understand what Judge Donnino is referring to, but that 12 second level of intent, for lack of a better term, is 9 The second, mens rea.

4392 3 submission on our part. I think we both agreed on that.

20 The defense is suggesting language that reads, 25 Continuing on the next page. "Evidence that 1 trial that the witness omitted to state at a prior time."
2 MR. STEINGLASS: I think that was an inadvertent 4 There is one part of the credibility charge I
5 think we have just agreed that we're also in agreement 6 about, the second disputed paragraph, which is one about 7 the witness testifying falsely. I think defense has 8 withdrawn that language, that requested language as well.

9 MR. BOVE: We're withdrawing it because we were 10 not permitted to and did not elicit from Mr. Cohen Judge 11 Pauley's findings, so we understand.

12 THE COURT: Looking at the submission that I
13 received today at 1:05, beginning with the Election Law 14 Section 17-152 predicate, the People are proposing language 15 that reads, "Thus, a person acts with the intent that 16 conduct be performed, that will promote or prevent the 17 person from public office by unlawful means, when his or 18 her conscious objective or purpose is that such conduct be 19 performed." 21 "Thus, a person acts with intent of conduct constituting a 22 crime be performed, when the person acts willfully that a 23 conscious objective or purpose that such conduct be 24 performed."
4393 1 President Trump was present when others agreed to engage in 2 performance of a crime, does not by itself show that 3 President Trump personally agreed to engage in the 4 conspiracy. Proof of separate or independent conspiracy is 24 We have taken the CJI charge for Conspiracy 6 and 25 adapted it for this circumstance.

5 not sufficient. In determining whether or not any single 6 conspiracy has been shown by the evidence in the case, you 7 must decide whether common goals or objectives existed and 8 served as the focal points in the efforts and actions of 9 the members of the agreement."
10 "In arriving at this decision, you may consider 11 the length of time that the alleged conspiracy existed and 12 mutual independence or existence between various persons 13 alleged to have been its members and the complexity of the 14 goal or objective."
15 So, let's begin with that one sentence the People 16 want to add.

17 MR. COLANGELO: So, your Honor, this is drawn from 18 and tracked as closely as possible with the CJI charge for 19 conspiracy in the sixth degree, Penal Law 105.00. We 20 simply substituted in language referencing that the conduct 21 that would be performed is the conduct to promote or 22 prevent the election of a person to public office by 23 unlawful means.

4394 1 We think, as the Court said a moment ago, tracking 2 as closely as possible where there is standard CJI
3 language is appropriate and useful.

19 FECA. Criminal conspiracy has to have a criminal object.

20 But, in addition to that, the Federal tax unlawful 21 means that the Government has proposed, they concede in 22 their request, that that is a statute that requires 23 wilfulness.

24 So, there are two unlawful means proposed by the 25 Government, two categories, at least, FECA and tax crimes, 8 think are competing proposals.

9 THE COURT: I understand.

10 MR. BOVE: I think the real dispute between the 11 parties is the wilfully language, from our perspective.

12 From our perspective, for the 17-152 conspiracy 13 to be a criminal conspiracy, there has to be intent that 14 reflects the highest level of intent of the objects of the 15 conspiracy.

16 Here we've had the argument at the beginning about 17 FECA, and our position is that, for this to be a criminal 18 conspiracy at all, it has to be a criminal violation of 4 Here there is standard CJI language on conspiracy.

5 THE COURT: You have your added language to that 6 paragraph. You go on to add two more paragraphs.

7 MR. BOVE: So the yellow and blue on Page 1, I
4395 1 that both have that wilfulness mens rea.

2 And so, our position is that that needs to be 3 imported up into the 17-152 mens rea. That is, the mental 4 state required to join the conspiracy. 5 Our cite, this is in Footnote 25 of our request to 6 charge, People versus Caban, C-A-B-A-N, New York Court of 23 24 (Whereupon, Theresa Magniccari, Senior Court Reporter, is relieved by Laurie Eisenberg, as Senior Court Reporter.

25 7 Appeals, 2005. This is an individual who is prosecuted for 8 conspiracy and necessarily is an individual that must have 9 the prescribed mens rea, the requisite intent to join 10 others and commit a substantive crime.

11 So that second sentence from Caban, we submit, is 12 controlling here. 13 So, because the object of the unlawful activity 14 under 17-152 must be criminal -- and we're going to have 15 this argument in a little bit, we don't think that the tax 16 predicate should go to the jury.

17 But, if it does, it will have this wilfully 18 requirement, same with respect to FECA. So, we think when 19 you are describing this Election Law Conspiracy, for you to 20 be describing a crime, a potentially valid predicate to 21 elevate the charges to a felony, it has to have this wilful 22 language.

4396 1 (Continued from the previous page.)
2 MR. COLANGELO: So, your Honor, the reference to 9 would violate those Criminal Provisions of 26 U.S.C.

10 So, that's not a concession in some cases 11 "willfulness" is required. It's not.

12 The underlying criminal conduct violates the 18 it right.

21 THE COURT: I understand the dispute there, 22 Mr. Bove.

23 Tell me about the final two paragraphs.

24 MR. BOVE: The -- on paragraph -- excuse me. On 25 Page 2 --
8 under the Internal Revenue Code. It violates those or 13 criminal prohibitions of FECA anyway, but clearly meets 14 the standard of "willfulness".

15 That's not a concession.

16 Mr. Bove's point about the elements required to 17 establish conspiracy, our position is we think the CJI got 19 And if we track the CJI language, that's the most 20 constructive way to instruct the jury in this context.

3 the statutory language in the Federal Tax Provision is not 4 a concession. It's a -- it is a description of the 5 statutory provisions that the fact pattern in this case 6 meets and that make the grossing up agreement and the 7 intent to conceal the reimbursement as illegal income 4397 1 THE COURT: Page 2. That sounds right.

2 MR. BOVE: The first paragraph: "Evidence that 3 President Trump was present", that's a standard "mere 4 presence" charge.

10 the Government doesn't have to establish this crime in its 11 entirety.

12 But, the concept of "mere presence" is important 13 because of the way the evidence came in about President 14 Trump being in certain places at certain times, and the 15 same with Pecker, Weisselberg, throughout.

22 MR. BOVE: I'm not sure what you mean.

23 THE COURT: Such as the accomplice liability 24 section, that mere presence at the scene of a crime, 25 without more, by itself, does not constitute guilt?

5 I think, based on the conversations and reviewing 6 the Government's papers, what I would propose -- it's a 7 standard charge out of the CJI.

8 What I propose is, say, "Remove President Trump 9 from the equation," because we're mindful of the fact that 16 We think this is an accurate statement in the law 17 about the conspiracy crime that is extraordinarily 18 important to the jury's deliberations if it gets to the 19 question of whether or not there's a felony.

20 THE COURT: Isn't that concern addressed in other 21 parts of the charge?

4398 1 MR. BOVE: I don't think it accomplishes it for 2 purposes of a conspiracy, Judge.

3 They are similar concepts, "mere presence".

4 But, I think to protect our rights, they bear 5 repeating, what we're introducing is a distinct concept:
6 There's the criminal conspiracy predicate here. There's 9 THE COURT: What's the harm of including that?

10 We're including accessorial liability. This 11 section includes conspiracy. Why not include it there?

12 MR. COLANGELO: It would mislead the jury for two 13 reasons. 19 It's confusing to instruct the jury of the 20 import of his mere presence when, if the facts show 21 after-the-fact he decided to conceal it, it would also be 22 an FBR violation.

23 The second reason is the trial record doesn't 24 support an argument of mere presence.

25 The extensive argument regarding the evidence of 14 The first, as we addressed in the briefing and 15 the Court's decision, for months, the Defendant himself 16 doesn't need to have committed this crime to have 17 culpability under the FBR charge. It's if he concealed the 18 admission of someone else's crime.

7 the same from the accessorial criminal liability that 8 could give a conviction in 175.10.

4399 1 the Trump Tower meeting of August of '15 is evidence of 2 participation, not mere presence.

3 This would be confusing and lead the jury in a 4 skewed understanding of the facts the trial record does 5 not support.

6 THE COURT: That's a different argument.

24 criminal at all about that.

25 So, that's why I think "mere presence" is 7 Is there a reasonable view of the evidence to 8 support that claim?

9 MR. BOVE: We certainly think so.

10 I think the August 2015 meeting was a good 11 example. From our perspective, what was discussed in that 12 meeting, if you credit the People's witnesses, is a series 13 of pretty standard campaign activity that were not 14 criminal and being practiced by candidates around the 15 country for decades. Mr. Pecker described some of that.

16 And the jury can certainly reach that finding.

17 So, I was actually -- before Mr. Colangelo said 18 that, I was going to raise that as my example as mere 19 presence can be very much a part of the defense here, 20 because sitting in that room, hearing people talk about 21 trying to get positive press coverage, avoid negative 22 press coverage, not have negative stories come out about 23 someone, the Defense's position is there's nothing 4400 1 important here.

2 We're going to get to the next part.

3 This part we're pulling from CJI.

6 not?

7 MR. BOVE: In the same way that we are being 8 clear with the jury on other issues in 175.10, such as 15 THE COURT: Tell me about the last paragraph 16 where you talk about "multiple conspiracies".

17 MR. BOVE: We are requesting instructions on 18 "multiple conspiracies" because we think there is a view 23 But then look at the testimony from Cohen about 24 what happened in January of 2017, and look at a different 25 conspiracy that didn't involve Mr. Pecker and didn't 19 of the evidence where the jury can look at the August 2015 20 meeting and find an agreement to -- I think as the statute 21 puts it -- 17-152 puts it: Promote a candidate, but 22 without willful means.

9 what the Government is not required to prove with respect 10 to intent to defraud, this is an issue where we're 11 requesting clarity on our side about what does not 12 constitute a willful joinder of a felony -- of a 13 misdemeanor 17-152 conspiracy that could have very serious 14 consequences in the jury's deliberations.

4 THE COURT: So, if there's nothing criminal about 5 it, what difference does it make whether he's present or 4401 24 One point, going back to the comment Mr. Bove 25 made on the trial record regarding the Trump Tower 6 And we need to be clear with the jury that they 7 need to find -- when they're looking at this issue, 8 evidence of President Trump having intent to commit or 9 conceal a criminal conspiracy. And that's what we're 10 trying to capture here in the "multiple conspiracies" 11 instruction.

12 MR. COLANGELO: Language like this is necessary 13 only when the Defendant is actually charged with a 14 conspiracy, which he isn't in this case.

15 And the jury doesn't have to decide whether he's 16 guilty of a single conspiracy or whether there were, 17 instead, multiple conspiracies.

18 It's irrelevant whether there was a single 19 conspiracy or multiple ones, as long as he had some intent 20 to conceal the conspiracy, whether he, himself, even 21 participated in it.

22 So, we think it's extraneous and shouldn't be 23 included, at risk of confusing the jury.

1 involve the same players. Maybe one person overlapped.

2 One civil conspiratorial agreement in August of 2015 and 3 one -- in crediting the best view for their side of the 4 evidence -- potentially criminal conspiracy in 5 January 2017.

4402 1 meeting.

4 high-minded conversation about democracy.

5 We know that because Mr. Pecker left that 6 meeting, immediately told a small handful of trusted 9 which we allege are unlawful, including things he had 10 never ever done before and were not part of his typical 11 practice.

12 The trial doesn't support the first paragraph, 13 either.

14 THE COURT: Let's turn to "unlawful means". 20 The most critical point here is that the jury 21 does not need to conclude unanimously what the specific 22 unlawful means are. That's the key point here.

23 We understand the Defense opposes that, but 24 there's sort of well-established New York Law, that a jury 25 does not have to be unanimous about unlawful means about 2 There just is no reasonable view of the evidence 3 that that was a perfectly benign discussion or a 17 Here, I think the two paragraphs that we propose 18 that are bracketed in yellow are intended to give the jury 19 some guidance on what "unlawful" means.

16 MR. COLANGELO: Thank you, your Honor.

15 Start with the People.

7 lieutenants, directed them to keep it secret, and then 8 proceeded to do all the other steps in the conspiracy 4403 1 accomplishing a single offense.

2 So, I think the key point here for this 23 THE COURT: Do you agree, that's not ordinarily 24 required?

25 MR. BOVE: Certainly.

3 instruction is to advise the jury that, yes, there has to 4 be some unlawful means, and to alert them as to what those 5 unlawful means are, but also advise them that they don't 6 have to unanimously agree on each of the unlawful means.

7 MR. BOVE: That is the heart of the dispute in 8 these two competing proposals, is whether the jury should 9 be required to find unanimously which of the 17-152 10 unlawful means are at issue.

11 We understand the law that's been cited here.

12 We think your Honor has some discretion.

13 This is, obviously, an extraordinarily important 14 case.

15 We do have a motion pending from yesterday, 16 still.

17 Assuming this is going to go to the jury, in the 18 way that these statutes are being used in this case --
19 which there's not much, if any, precedent for -- we submit 20 that the jury should be required to make very specific 21 findings, as specific as Your Honor's discretion would 22 permit, so it's very clear what happened at this trial.

4404 1 We think it's important under the circumstances 2 of this case and think it's in your Honor's discretion to 3 make clear the record here.

7 other case.

8 That is, there's no reason to rewrite the law for 9 this case.

10 THE COURT: I agree.

11 I think I understand what you're saying, what you 12 mean when you're saying it's an important case.

13 What you're asking me to do is change the law, 14 and I'm not going to do that.

15 Looking at Paragraphs 2 and 3, those seem very 16 similar to me.

17 What's the difference between those two 18 paragraphs?

19 MR. COLANGELO: So, your Honor, we have a couple 20 of concerns with Defense proposal.

21 The first is that it refers to a requirement that 22 there be proof that the goal of the conspiracy was to 23 promote the election of a person by unlawful means.

24 And, as we've discussed, the -- the actual 25 commission of the predicate crime does not need to be 6 consistently as possible, as the Court would do in every 4 MR. COLANGELO: The importance of the law is not 5 deviating from the law; it's to apply the law as 4405 9 there's no proof requirement as to the object crime.

18 And we understand -- and I believe this is a 19 sufficiency argument.

20 We understand that the Defense opposes that third 21 category, the violation of Tax Laws.

22 MR. BOVE: Judge, we think that the Government 23 does have to put forward some proof of the objects of the 24 17-152 conspiracy. Because if they don't prove up 25 criminal objects, then there is no criminal conspiracy.

1 established beyond a reasonable doubt, so we think it's 2 confusing and inaccurate to refer to a requirement of 3 proof.

4 Again, the only proof obligation the People have, 5 which is a high one, is to establish that this Defendant 6 had made or caused false entries in the business records 7 of his enterprises, with an intent to defraud and the 8 intent to conceal the commission of another crime. But, 10 So, we oppose the use of the word "proof".

11 I think the second key disagreement here is we 12 believe the Court should advise the jury that there are 13 three different unlawful means that the co-conspirators 14 intended to execute in order to promote the Defendant's 15 election unlawfully: violations of the Federal Election 16 Campaign Act, falsification of other business records, and 17 the violation of Tax Laws.

4406 1 In that event, there is no predicate to elevate the 175.10 2 charges up to a felony.

3 So, under these circumstances, the way the 7 President Trump's election without unlawful means, in 20 trial, the jury instructions did not identify an object 21 crime.

22 In nearly all burglary cases, the Court doesn't 23 identify an object crime.

24 We attempted to do so to make the evidence as 25 clear as possible for the jury and to help them understand 4 Government chose to put this theory of this case to this 5 jury, there does need to be proof. Because, otherwise, the 6 jury could find that there was a conspiracy to promote 8 which case, that would not support what the Government is 9 going to ask this jury to do.

10 So, we think that our language is an accurate 11 statement of the law, and proof is required that there 12 were criminal objects of this conspiracy. Because, 13 otherwise, there's no unlawful means. In that event, 14 there's no 17-152 conspiracy, and there's no basis to 15 elevate this up to a felony.

16 THE COURT: Yes.

17 MR. COLANGELO: Under People v. Mackey, the 18 People weren't even required to identify any object crime.

19 As the Court knows, in The Trump Corporation 4407 1 the facts of the case.

2 But, where there's no obligation to identify even 3 the object crime, there is no reason to be held to the 4 proof standard of the object crime.

7 MR. BOVE: Mackey had to come up at least once at 8 this conference.

9 Look. There's a very significant difference 10 between the facts in Mackey and a burglary charge, where 11 the Court of Appeals said there can be evidence of 12 criminal intent of the fact of the entry, the manner in 13 which the burglary happened.

14 This is not that case.

15 And your Honor has discretion here.

16 The really important issue is: The predicate that 17 the Government is moving forward on requires proof of 18 unlawful means.

19 The jury cannot infer that the predicate is 20 established just by the fact that there was an agreement 21 to promote President Trump's election in 2016.

22 Of course there was. He won.

23 They have to establish some kind of unlawful 24 means to make that a crime.

25 That makes this very different from Mackey.

5 What we have to prove is the Defendant's intent 6 and the intent to aid or conceal.

4408 1 That's why we structured these proposals in the 2 way that we did.

3 THE COURT: Looking at violation of Tax Laws on 4 Page 3, Section 3.

5 People.

6 MR. COLANGELO: Thank you, your Honor.

11 We just think the trial record refutes any 12 argument along those lines.

13 The record shows, both through witness testimony 14 and the documentary evidence, including Weisselberg's 15 handwritten notes on the Essential Consultants' bank 16 statement at People's Exhibit 35, Jeff McConney's 17 contemporaneous handwritten notes, People's 36, the record 18 shows that part of the intended concealment here was to 19 camouflage the reimbursement as income so it wouldn't be 20 noticed. And in order to camouflage it as income or as a 21 consequence of camouflaging it as income, they doubled it, 22 they grossed it up for tax purposes.

23 Weisselberg and McConney even wrote down "grossed 24 up" on People's 35, "times two for taxes" on People's 36.

25 So, falsely identifying corporate payment as 7 As we understand it, the Defense objection to 8 including this charge at all is that I believe the Defense 9 is arguing that the evidence is insufficient to establish 10 Tax Law violations.

4409 1 reimbursement -- as income rather than reimbursement.

2 And then, as the Court also saw through the 1099s 3 that were submitted to the IRS, carrying forward that 4 deception through documents that not only were intended to 10 MR. BOVE: The problem with this theory, Judge, 11 and the reason that it shouldn't go to the jury is that 12 Michael Cohen testified that he didn't know anything about 13 it. 19 "Answer: I don't know. And, to be honest, I
20 didn't even really think about it. I just wanted to get my 21 money back."
22 That testimony is the reason that the tax 23 predicate should not go to this jury, because what the 24 Government's theory is, is that they're talking about tax 25 filings by Mr. Cohen.

5 be, but ultimately were, submitted to Government agencies, 6 all is evidence of false -- submission of false 7 information to Tax Authorities; and those elements, alone, 8 establish the City, State and Federal Tax violations that 9 we identified.

14 And I'm referring to the transcript at 3490, 15 Lines 6 through 9.

16 He was asked: "What, if any, understanding do you 17 have about why he" -- why Allen Weisselberg -- "grossed 18 that reimbursement up to $360,000?"
4410 3 only reflects and it confirms in an open way that payments 4 were made to Mr. Cohen. The Trump Organization was 5 transparent about this.

6 That's not evidence of some kind of agreement to 7 make false tax filings by Mr. Cohen.

8 And Mr. Cohen testified that he didn't know 9 anything about it.

10 So, that's the factual basis for this argument.

11 MR. COLANGELO: I don't think that testimony can 12 fairly be characterized as indicating Mr. Cohen didn't 13 know anything about it.

14 He separately testified that it was grossed up 15 because he was going to take it as income.

16 He knew full well it was not income. He knew it 17 was a reimbursement.

18 The trial record supports it was a reimbursement 19 because it tracks directly the $100,000 to Keith Davidson.

20 Arguably, there's competing evidence the parties 21 can present to the jury.

22 We don't remotely think it's income for work.

23 We think the transcript shows he knew he was 24 getting income for reimbursement that they were calling 25 "income" when it's not.

1 He didn't agree to do anything.

2 There's that 1099 Miscellaneous Form which just 4411 1 He also said over and over again that the checks 2 were reimbursement, they were not payment for a retainer 3 for services rendered.

4 So, all of that supports the view that he knew he 5 was getting money called "income" when it wasn't.

6 That, alone, supports the tax violation, Judge.

7 (Whereupon, Senior Court Reporter Lisa Kramsky 8 relieves Senior Court Reporter Laurie Eisenberg, and the 9 transcript continues on the following page.)
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 4412 1 (The following proceedings are continued from 2 the previous page.)
3 MR. BOVE: Separate from the factual issue here, 4 Judge, we do have our additional position, which is that 5 these -- this back and forth that we are talking about, and 6 we don't think that the inferences that were just described 7 are supported by the trial record.

8 But even if they were, an agreement after the 9 election to do these things is not an agreement to promote 22 MR. COLANGELO: I think the Court rejected that 23 argument, as a matter of law, in your Honor's decision on 24 Omnibus Motions in February.

25 And, in any event, the trial record clearly 10 President Trump's candidacy in the 2016 election.

11 A conspiracy doesn't automatically continue past 12 the accomplishment of its objectives.

13 And so, the issue here is that on the 14 Government's theory, when President Trump won, the 15 conspiracy -- this is 17-152 -- the conspiracy was 16 accomplished.

17 And so, for that additional reason, as a matter of 18 law, the tax predicates should not go to the jury on this 19 theory because they could not have possibly have promoted 20 President Trump's election, because it had already happened.

21 THE COURT: Yes?

4413 1 supports, and a rational juror could conclude, that where 2 one of the purposes of the conspiracy was to hide damaging 13 These alleged tax crimes that we weren't even 14 allowed to ask Mr. Cohen about are not -- they didn't --
15 they are not unlawful means on the Government's theory of an 16 election that has already happened.

17 There is also no evidence that The Trump 18 Organization took a deduction on this or that President 19 Trump took a deduction on this.

22 And so, there is just not enough evidence for these 23 things to go to the jury.

24 MR. COLANGELO: I think the Court addressed that 25 argument as well, in granting the People's motions to quash 3 information and where there was an agreement made in advance 4 to conceal the nature of the transactions, that the ultimate 5 consummation through the repayment agreements is part of a 6 continuous course of conduct.

7 And it doesn't matter that it happened a few months 8 after the election, rather than before.

9 MR. BOVE: But those are factual arguments, Judge.

10 What the statute that we're talking about prohibits 11 is promoting a candidate in an election. The election was 12 over at this point.

20 There is no evidence of any tax filing on the 21 company's side either.

4414 3 the payments is irrelevant to the question of whether, when 4 they decided in January 2017 to gross it up, and to do so in 5 order to conceal the reimbursement as income, whether that, 6 at that moment, included an intent to commit tax law 7 violations, which we believe it did.

21 So, we think the better course would be at the 22 beginning of the counts to then give them the substance of 23 -- the real substance of what's at issue here, such as: 24 Ladies and gentlemen, what I'm about to say applies 25 to Counts 1 through 34.

8 THE COURT: All right. I have one more question, 9 then I want to take a short break.

10 The People have submitted proposed language for 11 Counts 32 through 34. 12 Have you had a chance to look at them? 13 MR. BOVE: We have, Judge. 14 And our concern with the proposal is that to try 15 and summarize the elements at the end, as well as the 16 description of which document is attached to which count, 17 would be to sort of limit the jury's consideration or at 18 least there would be a risk of them confusing their 19 consideration of all of the things that you told them about 20 each of the counts.

1 the subpoenas to Mr. Cohen who could -- where your Honor 2 held that evidence regarding his ultimate tax treatment of 4415 1 At the end I will be clear with you about what 2 documents applies to each count so that they understand 3 beforehand what applies to each count; and this is so that 13 I'm not sure we have a strong view one way or the 14 other.

15 If the Court thinks that there is a more artful way 16 to do it, we obviously would not object. 22 That's fine.

23 Okay. Let's take ten minutes. 24 (Recess taken.)
25 **********
10 practice of reciting the elements of the offense at the end 11 of a recitation of multiple counts where there are many 12 consecutive counts. 17 THE COURT: I -- I think the proposal that we have 18 right now would lay out the elements right at the beginning 19 before count 1, and then right at the end, after count 34. 20 I have no problem giving the instruction you are 21 requesting as well.

4 they can understand -- it's very abundantly in an excess of 5 caution, so that they understand that everything you're 6 saying applies to each count.

7 MR. COLANGELO: Your Honor, our proposal was drawn 8 from charges that this Court has given in other cases and 9 was based on our understanding of the Court's typical 4416 1 THE SERGEANT: Remain seated. Part 59 is back in 2 session.

3 THE COURT: All right. That was pretty much what I 4 had.

5 I would like to hear if you have any issues or 6 arguments that you would like to bring to my attention now.

7 MR. BOVE: Yes, your Honor, thank you.

8 There are some instructions that we requested in 21 material. 22 THE COURT: Can you direct me to the page in your 23 submission that you are referring to? 24 MR. BOVE: Yes, Judge, one second.

25 (Pause.)
9 the defendant's request submission that you referenced.

10 THE COURT: Yes. 11 MR. BOVE: I think that we don't have controversial 12 arguments about too many of them, but there are a couple of 13 them that are worth discussing. 14 We proposed a limiting instruction with respect to 15 bias that is specific to President Trump. 16 It is one that we modified from the instruction 17 that your Honor gave at the Trump Org trial that we think is 18 appropriate here.

19 There are sort of parallel competing proposals to 20 some extent, but I don't know that the differences are 4417 1 THE COURT: Here it is. Page 5.

2 MR. BOVE: Right.

3 We've also requested an instruction. 4 THE COURT: Do you want to talk any more about that 5 one? 6 MR. BOVE: No, your Honor.

7 THE COURT: All right. I would like to hear from 8 the People. 9 MR. STEINGLASS: We would like to talk -- we would 10 like to be heard on it. 11 First of all, we don't think that this is 12 necessary, this charge. 13 I think the voir dire has satisfied this problem. 14 I think this charge was more appropriate -- and Mr. Bove 18 And your Honor, I believe, the point of that 19 instruction was trying to remind the jury to keep Mr. Trump 20 out of the last trial because it wasn't -- he was not a 21 named defendant. 22 I don't think that instructing a jury that they 23 shouldn't hold bias against the defendant is necessary; 24 however, I think -- I mean, and I think that your Honor's 25 standard charge talks about excluding sympathy and bias. 15 cites the Trump Corporation trial, it was more appropriate 16 there where the defendant was not -- well, this defendant 17 was not a defendant in that case.

4418 1 So, I think it's covered by the standard CJI
2 charge.

3 If -- and I think Mr. Bove inadvertently stated 4 this incorrectly, it's not that we have competing proposals, 5 we don't think that this charge is necessary at all, but if 6 you are going to give it or a charge like it, we would 7 propose the more neutral language on Page 17 and 18 of our 8 response. 9 THE COURT: Well, as you know, Mr. Bove, that's not 10 an instruction that's normally given. 11 There are several times in the Court's instructions 12 that I refer to bias, fairness, implicit bias. 13 And in this case, I believe the questionnaire had 14 about 42 or 43 questions and then, of course, the voir dire 15 was pretty extensive. 16 Because the People are going along with a modified 17 version of what you're suggesting, I will go ahead and 18 include it, even though it's not something that I normally 19 do. 20 So, I will include the People's version on Pages 17 21 and 18 of their submission. 22 MR. BOVE: Thank you, Judge. The next request is 23 on Page 6. 24 It's just turning the page over, relating to a 25 curative or a limiting instruction that these so-called hush 4419 1 money payments are not inherently illegal.

2 I think that the logic of this type of instruction 3 is similar to the limiting instruction that we discussed 4 earlier about what intent to defraud does not mean.

5 This is, I think, something that is 6 straightforward, and should be clarified to the jury so that 7 they're not misled by the use of certain terms that both 8 sides are going to use in their arguments and fairly so. 9 We think it should be clear to the jury that hush 10 money alone is not illegal. 11 MR. STEINGLASS: What the Defense is asking is 12 for you to make their arguments for them within the jury 13 charge. 14 They can argue whatever they want, as long as it's 15 a reasonable view of the evidence. 16 They can certainly say this to the jury, if they 17 want, but it's totally inappropriate for the Court to 20 THE COURT: I think this came up numerous times 21 during the course of the trial. 22 I think several witnesses were asked that question 23 several times. 24 The answer was always: It's not illegal. It's not 25 a crime.

18 marshal the evidence in a way that just makes the 19 defendant's argument for him.

4420 1 And I expect that in your summation you are going 2 to argue the same.

3 And I don't think the People are going to dispute 4 that, because they can't.

5 So, but I think to take it to the next level and 6 actually give an instruction from the bench is taking it too 7 far, and I don't think it's necessary.

8 MR. BOVE: Understood. 9 So now we're moving to Page 7, Judge.

18 Mr. Cohen about public reactions and responses to the Access 19 Hollywood tape. 20 Our position is that the only basis for that 21 testimony to come in was not for its truth, but rather for 22 its impact on the listener.

23 Here, I assume the Government's theory is that 24 President Trump necessarily was one of the listeners, and 25 they're going to make arguments about how he reacted to 10 And it's an instruction about evidence that was not 11 offered for its truth. 12 And so, we broke this out in terms of documents 13 that came in in that fashion on witness testimony. 14 I think that with respect to the documents, we are 15 largely in agreement. 16 And there is a dispute about the witnesses, 17 meaning there was testimony from Hope Hicks and from 4421 1 these statements that they've elicited.

2 What we are seeking is an instruction that 3 clarifies and confirms that factual assertions in those 4 reactions were not offered for their truth.

5 Things about, for example, the RNC's reaction to 6 the tape and how that might impact their association with 7 President Trump in his campaign at the time.

24 I said I understood that there is a time and place 25 for this type of evidence, and I think we've gone over the 8 The Government disputes how this evidence came in 9 with respect to Ms. Hicks.

10 And I think we would like to clarify here. 11 Your Honor will recall that there were -- there was 12 a series of questions during Ms. Hick's direct examination 13 about reactions, and at some point -- and we did not object 14 to those, not because we believed they were coming in for 15 the truth, but because sitting here I understood why they 16 were coming in for their impact on the listener.

17 At some point, the questioning, from our 18 perspective, became cumulative in that, as we've said 19 before, in our view there is sort of a tipping point for 20 evidence that's not coming in for its truth becomes unduly 21 prejudicial. 22 When we reached that point, I asked for a sidebar.

23 At sidebar I referenced the hearsay issue.

4422 1 threshold.

2 So, I think it's clear on the record that we 3 understood why the evidence was coming in and the 4 instruction that we are asking for on Page 78 just makes 5 that clear to the jury.

11 MR. STEINGLASS: Okay. So, if we're just talking 12 about the Access Hollywood tape and the reaction to it, I 13 don't think that that -- I don't think that such a 14 limiting -- that the evidence was limited in that way.

15 And I don't think that the Court gave a limiting 16 instruction then, and I don't think the Court should give a 17 limiting instruction now.

18 The nature of the reaction by the Republican Party, 19 by other prominent Republican senators, by other members of 20 the public, the fact that that was the reaction had an 21 impact on the listener, being the defendant. 22 And so, I don't even think it matters whether it's 23 true that John McCain, for example, withdrew his 24 endorsement.

25 I think the point is that John McCain withdrew his 6 And we think that's important and we don't think it 7 should be very controversial because there is no other basis 8 for the communications and the testimony that we are 9 referencing this instruction.

10 THE COURT: People.

4423 1 endorsement and what impact that had on the defendant so I
2 think that this charge is confusing.

3 I think it's unnecessary.

20 MR. STEINGLASS: I'm not quite sure that that's 21 what the instruction that they are suggesting says, but 22 we can all agree that the evidence of the reaction of 23 others is coming in for its impact on the defendant, and his 24 state of mind and the impetus to lock up the Stormy Daniels 25 story.

4 I think it retroactively limits the evidence. And, 5 you know, I'm not even quite sure what prejudice the 6 defendant is seeking to cure here.

7 MR. BOVE: We are seeking to be precise with the 8 jury about the admissible bases for which evidence came in 9 at the trial.

10 And I didn't object when Ms. Hicks was testifying. 11 I explained why I didn't object. 12 There was one permissible basis for this testimony, 13 and I think Mr. Steinglass just described it. 14 Except he also described a factual assertion by 15 Senator McCain, and that factual assertion doesn't come in 16 for its truth, the fact that he was withdrawing his support.

17 That's my point.

18 This should not be controversial. It comes in for 19 its impact on President Trump; and that's what this says.

4424 7 MR. BOVE: We will take a look, Judge.

8 But I actually think that we've cited in our 9 submission the transcript excerpts that we are concerned 10 about. 11 And -- 12 THE COURT: I'm sorry, you are referring to Page 7?

20 THE COURT: I see. 21 MR. BOVE: 23 and 24, I'm sorry. 22 THE COURT: Yes.

24 MR. BOVE: We are just seeking to be clear and 25 precise with the jury about the purpose for which they can 1 THE COURT: I agree, but what I can do is go back 2 and read those portions of the transcript.

3 So, if you can email me directly those pages that 4 you are referring to.

5 I'm happy to go back and look at it again, but 6 right now I'm in agreement with the People.

17 THE COURT: I'm just looking for the pages of the 18 transcript that you are referring to.

19 MR. BOVE: It's in the footnotes. 16 MR. BOVE: It carries over. 15 THE COURT: What pages?

14 The transcript -- 13 MR. BOVE: Yes, your Honor.

23 Thank you.

4425 1 consider that evidence.

2 There were times where news articles came in 3 where we sought to do that affirmatively during the course 4 of the trial, there were other times that we elected to wait 5 until this point. 6 That wasn't a waiver, Judge.

7 Those -- that's for Ms. Hicks who testified or 8 Mr. Cohen to testify about what out-of-court declarant said 14 entered into the record. 17 MR. STEINGLASS: Now, that last clause of 18 Mr. Bove's statement seems to say that it's not just the 19 Access Hollywood tape, that we're talking about other 20 exhibits that came in. 21 So, rather than get into a back and forth about 22 this, unless your Honor wants me to, I will just point your 23 Honor to our response to the defendant's request to charge, 24 in which we basically say that it's really not necessary for 25 you to give further instruction on documents that came in 12 And we will ask that you clarify it for the jury 13 and to be clear with respect to the evidence that was 15 THE COURT: I will go back over the evidence, and I 16 will consider it.

9 to be offered for its truth was obviously inadmissible, it 10 could only come in for the basis that Mr. Steinglass 11 described.

1 subject to certain limitations because you've already done 2 that.

3 And even if you are inclined to do that, they've 4 asked for limitations on documents that came in without 5 limitations. 6 In other words, kind of retroactively.

7 THE COURT: Right.

11 THE COURT: All right. 12 MR. BOVE: The next request, Judge, is on Page 9.

8 MR. STEINGLASS: Changing the purpose for which 9 these documents were received. And we certainly oppose 13 And this is -- what we are seeking is just for your 14 Honor to reiterate to the jury the limiting instruction 15 around Mr. Cohen's FECA pleas, and the AMI Non-Prosecution 16 Agreement as well as the Conciliation Agreement.

17 We have proposed some language.

18 The Government has sought some modifications and 19 your Honor will use in your discretion. 20 THE COURT: I think limiting instructions are 21 appropriate. 22 I will take a look at the language and see what's 23 being proposed. 24 But I gave limiting instructions during the course 25 of the trial, I think it's appropriate to give the jury the 10 that.

4426 4427 1 charge.

4 trial.

5 The language that the Defense is proposing in their 6 submission is outrageous.

7 Such as: AMI did not admit to any violations of 8 the law in those agreements.

18 non-pros is evidence of a violation of FECA by AMI.

19 Our concern gets back to the purpose of the 20 limiting instruction in the first place. 21 There is a suggestion in the Government's reply to 22 our request, that there is some kind of dispute that the 23 jury needs to evaluate about whether -- what that non-pros 24 reflects and whether it reflects a violation.

25 We think that type of argument would be wholly 9 This is not the limiting instruction that you gave; 10 this is an argument. 11 THE COURT: I'm not commenting on the language that 12 the defense has suggested. 13 MR. STEINGLASS: Okay. 14 MR. BOVE: I wasn't trying to be outrageous.

15 The reason that we put that in the proposal, Judge, 16 and it was queued up in the Government's response, is that 17 there was a comment at sidebar about whether or not the 2 MR. STEINGLASS: And just to clarify, we are fine 3 with the limiting instruction that you gave during the 4428 1 inappropriate in front of the jury, unless somebody opens 2 the door to it.

3 I have been clear about our intentions with respect 4 to the door. 7 on behalf of AMI, because that would be making arguments 8 about the non-pros as substantive evidence of President 17 inappropriate --
18 MR. STEINGLASS: Judge, you gave a limiting 19 instruction. 20 The limiting instruction was not just limited to 21 Mr. Pecker's credibility; it was the surrounding 22 circumstances.

23 There are arguments that can be made. 24 And I agree that there are arguments that cannot be 25 made.

5 So there really shouldn't be any argument from the 6 Government in summations about what that non-pros reflects 10 The only reason -- like the FECA pleas, the only 11 reason that the non-pros is in evidence is with respect to 12 Mr. Pecker's credibility. 13 It's not in evidence as substantive proof of 14 anything.

15 And so, to be arguing to the jury about whether 16 and to what extent it reflects a violation to be 9 Trump's guilt.

4429 1 We do not intend to suggest that Michael Cohen's 2 guilty plea or that AMI's Non-Pros Agreement is evidence of 3 the defendant's guilt, but it is relevant to more than 4 credibility.

5 That's what your Honor's limiting instruction that, 6 I believe the Defense drafted, said.

7 And we think that you should give that same 8 instruction and that we should be able to make the arguments 9 that you have allowed us to make and not make the arguments 10 that you have not allowed us to make. 13 THE COURT: My intention right now is to give 14 substantially the same instruction that I gave during the 15 trial. 16 MR. BOVE: Understood. We are concerned about what 17 was just said.

18 In terms of the potential for arguments that go 19 beyond just the extent to which these agreements and 20 documents bear on Pecker's credibility and Cohen's 21 credibility. 22 Anything that gets near this line, Judge, with the 23 jury in summations would be extraordinarily prejudicial and 24 so we would hope that the People will be extremely 25 conservative in their approach on this.

11 And we do not intend to make the arguments that you 12 have not allowed us to make.

4430 13 Commission, that evidence was permitted to assist you, the 14 jury, in assessing David Pecker's credibility and to help 15 provide context for some of the surrounding events. You may 16 consider that testimony for those purposes only. Neither 17 the Non-Prosecution Agreement nor the Conciliation Agreement 18 was evidence of the defendant's guilt, and you may not 19 consider them in determining whether the defendant is guilty 20 or not guilty of the charged crimes." 21 I don't think we need to go back and forth with 22 this.

23 MR. STEINGLASS: Agreed. 24 THE COURT: What else?

25 MR. BOVE: Next on my list is our proposed 1 And if they feel that they are close to the line, 2 we should talk about it outside of the presence of the jury.

3 This is a critical issue. 4 THE COURT: We don't need to keep going back and 5 forth with this. 6 I will just reiterate again, I have it right here.

7 I will read it again.

8 This is regarding AMI: 9 "You have just heard testimony that while David 10 Pecker was an executive at AMI, AMI entered into a 11 Non-Prosecution Agreement with Federal Prosecutors as well 12 as a Conciliation Agreement with the Federal Election 4431 1 instruction about involvement of counsel, Judge.

2 And I'm just trying to grab the page number. I
3 believe it's Page 12.

6 through a series of questions about a conversation that 23 Once that evidentiary link was made, there is a 24 fair inference that he -- he understood that to mean that it 25 had been vetted by counsel, that the Agreement was legal.

7 Mr. Pecker had with Mr. Cohen relating to the Agreements 8 involved -- that concern Ms. McDougal. 9 And we flagged this issue in advance of the trial, 10 that in the records that were disclosed to us, there was 11 this comment about the agreement being "bulletproof." 12 It is a fair inference from that, the use of that 13 word by Mr. Pecker, that what he meant was that it had been 14 vetted by counsel.

15 He actually testified, I believe on direct, that it 16 had been vetted by counsel.

17 What happened then, Judge, is that Mr. Cohen -- and 18 this was to some extent from us unexpected -- Mr. Cohen 19 confirmed that he communicated that word to President Trump. 20 That was an evidentiary link we hadn't necessarily 21 anticipated at this trial, absent President Trump taking the 22 stand.

4 We think that the door was opened by the Government 5 on direct examination of Mr. Cohen and Mr. Pecker by --
4432 1 Why does that matter at this trial?

2 We haven't put on a formal advice of counsel 3 defense. 4 I'm not seeking to retread that.

5 What we are seeking to do, though, Judge, is to 6 argue that this is extremely probative of President Trump's 13 instruction, and at a minimum, even if the Court is not 17 comment and the inferences that President Trump drew from 18 it, and from the general fact that this entire trial is 19 entirely predicated on the testimony of an attorney who 20 worked for President Trump and that he was entitled to draw 21 some inferences from that fact. 22 The Government seeks competing inferences. They 23 seek to prove them beyond a reasonable doubt. We understand 24 that.

25 But our position is that this is an exceedingly 10 willfulness as to FECA, et cetera. 11 And so, the fair inference from this conversation 12 that's in evidence, supports us, and supports this 14 going to give the instruction, this is an argument that we 15 wanted to raise at this conference and flag because we do 16 think it's appropriate, both with respect to the bulletproof 7 intent and, in particular, whether or not the Government can 8 meet their burden of establishing intent to defraud, and the 9 other types of intent that we talked about today, 4433 1 fair argument for the Defense to make when we challenge the 2 Government's burden, even if the Court is not going to give 3 the instruction we have requested. 4 MR. COLANGELO: Your Honor, this is a retread. 7 any argument regarding reliance on advice of counsel.

8 To the extent that Mr. Bove is making an 16 The defendant exercised his constitutional right 21 And the New York Law that I'm referring to, there 22 is a case called People versus Lurie, L-U-R-I-E, 249 AD 2d 23 119. 24 That's a First Department case.

25 So, legally unavailable because the defendant 9 opening-the-door argument, this defense and any argument 10 based on this defense is both legally and factually 11 unavailable for a number of reasons. 12 The first is that under New York Law, a 13 prerequisite for making any argument like this is that the 14 defendant himself testifies in order to establish a prima 15 facie case of his state of mind.

17 not to testify and subject himself to cross-examination.

18 But having done so, having done so, he can't then seek to 19 introduce argument or present argument to the jury regarding 20 his intent.

5 Your Honor rejected this argument on March 18th in 6 your Order granting the People's motion in limine to exclude 4434 1 didn't establish the basis for this claim himself anyway.

2 The second, as the Court already recognized, and 11 That case held that a defendant can't assert a 12 reasonable or good faith reliance based on a third party's 13 representation of advice to third party received through 14 consultations with counsel to which the defendant himself 15 did not have access. 16 And then, there is a factual reason why that 17 particular analysis applies with strong force in this case, 18 which is that the testimony also shows that Mr. Pecker 19 didn't give even remotely close to a full presentation of 20 the facts to the lawyer that he consulted. 21 He, in fact, testified that he specifically 22 authorized his General Counsel to give to the outside lawyer 23 simply the McDougal contract and didn't advise the lawyer of 24 any of the underlying facts that would be necessary to 25 determine whether the contract did or didn't evidence of 10 2019.

3 again as a legal matter, the presence of counsel concept, 4 particularly when it's based on some claim of reliance 5 regarding what a third party's lawyer may have said, is also 6 legally unavailable.

7 And we cited a case here in Court called Lek 8 Securities Corporation 2019 West Law 573944. 9 That's a Southern District of New York case from 4435 1 violation of Campaign Finance Law.

2 He didn't tell him about the agreement in Trump 3 Tower. 4 He didn't tell him that his real purpose was to 5 influence the election. 6 He didn't tell him that he didn't value the 7 services that McDougal was going to provide at 150 grand.

8 He only valued it at 25 grand. 9 He didn't give him -- he didn't tell him about the 10 intended assignment of the life rights back to Mr. Trump 11 after the fact. 12 So, none of the facts that an attorney would have 13 needed to rely on in order to make an informed judgment 14 about the lawfulness of that contract were even presented 15 to the attorney, which is why a defendant can't rely on 16 third party advice for this kind of defense in the first 17 place.

18 THE COURT: Mr. Bove, I don't think it's 19 necessary -- 20 MR. BOVE: Well, Judge, with respect to -- 21 THE COURT: I really don't think it's necessary to 22 respond.

23 MR. BOVE: Judge, Judge, this is an issue about the 24 Government's burden on a state of mind.

25 THE COURT: I understand, I understand the issue.

4436 1 If you want to go ahead and say something else, go 2 ahead.

3 MR. BOVE: I would, Judge. 4 Everything that was just said about Mr. Pecker's 9 accurate.

21 It doesn't -- that argument doesn't depend on 22 Mr. Pecker being truthful with his attorneys.

23 THE COURT: All right. Look -- 24 MR. COLANGELO: Your Honor, can I make an 25 additional argument?

10 Our argument relies on the fact that Mr. Pecker 11 said to Michael Cohen: "This is bulletproof." 12 That the fair inference from the "bulletproof" 13 comment is that it was legally vetted. 14 Whether and to what extent and how Mr. Pecker did 15 that doesn't bear on what was said to President Trump. 16 Mr. Cohen said to President Trump: I have been told that 17 the agreement was "bulletproof."
18 President Trump was entitled to draw an inference 19 from that when his own attorney is communicating it to him 20 that it had been property vetted.

5 intent and what he communicated to his attorney doesn't bear 6 on the argument that we want to make at all.

7 We are not suggesting that we -- our argument does 8 not rely on whether or not what Mr. Pecker said was 4437 22 And at that time, I indicated that you are 23 precluded from arguing this legal claim of presence of 24 counsel.

25 There was no such thing. It's just a way to get 1 THE COURT: Look, Mr. Bove, this is an issue that 2 has been going on for a very, very long time.

3 Going back to, I think it was December of 2023, I'm 4 not sure of the date, the People filed a motion asking this 5 Court to require the Defense to once and for all decide and 6 give notice whether the Defense was going to rely on the 7 defense of advice of counsel.

8 I wrote a decision on this. My decision is dated 9 February 7th.

10 In that decision, I directed the Defense to provide 11 Notice of Disclosure of your intent to rely on the defense 12 of advice of counsel by March 11th, 2024, and to produce all 13 discoverable statements and communications within his 14 possession or control by the same date.

15 Subsequently, in response -- and the answer was 16 we're not relying on advice of counsel, therefore, there is 17 no waiver; there is no need to submit any documents.

18 Later on, the defense of advice of counsel morphed 19 into something called the presence of counsel, which I had 20 never heard of and I was not familiar with, but I addressed 21 it in the motions in limine.

4438 1 around having to turn over documents related to the advice 2 of counsel.

3 Now, this term, "presence of counsel," has morphed 4 yet again into something called involvement of counsel.

5 THE COURT: I understand why you want it, this 6 instruction from the Court.

7 And I understand why you want to be able to make 8 the argument. 9 My answer hasn't changed and, honestly, I find it 10 disingenuous for you to make the argument at this point. 11 Please don't get up. 12 I let you speak; right. 13 I let you speak. 14 Let me speak.

15 MR. BOVE: All right. 16 Yes, your Honor.

17 THE COURT: It was -- it was concerning when notice 18 was not given initially in response to my Order of 19 February 7th. 20 It was concerning when the term was changed to 21 presence of counsel. 22 I couldn't believe when I saw it again in your 23 submission now calling it involvement of counsel. 24 And I understand the argument that you are making.

25 I'm telling you, my ruling is, the jury will not hear that 4439 1 instruction from the bench, nor are you permitted to make 2 that argument. Period.

3 MR. BOVE: I understand. I just want to complete 4 the record.

5 THE COURT: Go ahead. 6 MR. BOVE: I'm not being disingenuous with your 7 Honor.

8 I didn't -- this involvement of counsel wasn't 9 intended.

10 And I don't think it did change in any way the 11 substance of the argument that we want to make. 12 Our argument is based on testimony that happened 13 after the rulings that you just described at this trial, 14 when Michael Cohen testified that he told President Trump --
15 THE COURT: You said that already, Mr. Bove. 16 MR. BOVE: But then you called me "disingenuous,"
17 and I'm trying to explain myself.

20 MR. BOVE: In addition, nothing we are trying to 21 argue would require a waiver by President Trump.

18 THE COURT: But I heard it the first time, and I
19 heard it the second time. 22 He doesn't control Mr. Pecker's privilege. That's 23 clear. 24 And the attorney -- the other attorney I'm talking 25 about, Michael Cohen, testified at the trial.

4440 22 The Government's response is that there was some 23 testimony that there was a subsequent backup or syncing of 24 the phones.

25 But there is testimony -- Mr. Daus was unable to 1 THE COURT: And I'm not suggesting that you 2 required a waiver.

3 What I'm saying is that this is an argument that 4 you have been advancing for many, many months.

5 This is something that you have been trying to get 6 through to the jury for many, many months.

7 It's denied.

8 It's not going to happen.

9 Please don't raise it.

10 What else?

11 MR. BOVE: I think the last thing on this is, 12 Judge, is the proposed exfoliation instruction.

13 It's on Page 13.

14 We think that the factual basis -- this is an 15 exfoliation instruction relating to the destruction of 16 evidence of Michael Cohen and the phones.

17 The factual basis for this instruction comes from 18 the testimony of Mr. Daus, who analyzed the phones and he 19 talked about the factory reset of the phones, which he also 20 described as wiping, which result in the deletion of data 21 from those phones.

4441 6 In addition, there was testimony from Mr. Daus 9 I'm referring to the transcript at Page 2058.

10 And so, we think for both of those things an 11 exfoliation instruction is appropriate.

16 the testimony.

17 The testimony was that there was a factory reset on 18 one of Michael Cohen's phones, followed by, as defendant 19 fails to note, the restoration of the entire backup file 23 So there is absolutely no basis for a charge like 24 this.

25 Once again, the Defense is asking your Honor to 1 testify and could not testify, because he wasn't able to do 2 the analysis about what that -- what was actually loaded 3 back onto the phone. 4 So, we think for that reason, the exfoliation 5 instruction is appropriate.

7 about the use of the apps like Signal and Dust and Telegram 8 that sent messages to quote, "explode" or "self-delete."
12 MR. STEINGLASS: So far as, I've never seen an 13 instruction like this. 14 It's certainly not in the CJI, and it's also just 15 flat out wrong in terms of Mr. Bove's characterization of 20 onto that phone, which was then forensically downloaded and 21 analyzed by Mr. Daus, the entirety of which was given to the 22 Defense.

4442 3 They can make whatever arguments they want, 16 complete backup.

17 And our argument is not that the evidence was 18 deleted for the purposes of this instruction, the factual 23 In addition, the use of the apps that involve 24 self-exploding messages and the deletion of messages that he 25 concededly sent in 2016 also supports the instruction.

1 charge the jury as though their arguments are both factual 2 and legal ones.

4 although, I would suggest that they -- those arguments be 5 based in the actual record and not the imaginary record. 6 MR. BOVE: I think, if your Honor reviews the 7 testimony of Mr. Daus, what you will see is that there 8 was -- there was a factory reset, I believe it was in the 9 Fall of 2016 in a very relevant time frame.

10 That there was testimony that there was a sync. 11 That the sync came from a laptop with a user name from 12 Michael Cohen, and that he was unable to verify in any way 13 what was loaded back onto the phone because he never had 14 access to the laptop.

15 Not at all what Mr. Steinglass just said about a 19 basis is not that evidence was deleted in 2020 when he reset 20 it again or in 2023 when it was mishandled, the inference is 21 in 2016 when he did the reset, and he loaded something else 22 that we don't know about onto the phone.

4443 1 THE COURT: You did a very effective job of 2 cross-examining that witness.

3 I think you laid an excellent foundation for your 4 summation, on your arguments on summation.

5 I think that there is a good basis for that. 6 And you are free to do that, but I'm not going to 7 give an instruction on exfoliation to the jury in my 8 charge. 9 MR. STEINGLASS: Are you done?

10 MR. BOVE: Yes. 12 raise.

16 exhibits.

17 I would just ask you to give it again.

18 Does anybody need a copy of it?

19 Mr. Bove? 20 MR. BOVE: No. 21 MR. STEINGLASS: Can I hand it up? 22 (Handed.)
23 MR. STEINGLASS: So, that one is easy. 24 There are two more.

25 One, I think we didn't discuss the accessorial 11 MR. STEINGLASS: So I have a few more issues to 13 One of which is very easy. 14 It should be very easy.

15 Your Honor gave an instruction on redactions in the 4444 1 liability charge that we sent around.

2 And I believe it was a joint submission this 3 afternoon.

4 I wanted to point out two quick things about it.

5 First of all, it's maybe a little bit difficult to 6 understand the way this was done.

7 But, for example, if your Honor looks on Page 1 8 and 2.

9 Do you have a copy of it with you or I have an 10 extra copy?

11 THE COURT: Direct me to what time that came 12 through?

13 MR. STEINGLASS: I have no idea.

14 THE COURT: I think it was this afternoon?

15 MR. STEINGLASS: It was this afternoon. I will 16 just hand up a copy.

17 (Handed.)
18 MR. STEINGLASS: So, I just want to make it clear, 19 we crossed out the note, as appropriate.

20 That's because we both agree that that language 21 should be given.

22 That's on Page 1 and Page 2, where the optional 23 language is there, that we both agree that it should be 24 given.

25 That's what crossing out the note means.

4445 1 There is only one word that we disagree with in 2 this entire charge and that is the mens rea requirement.

3 So accessorial liability accomplice, of course, to 9 liability charge be read with the mens rea of willfully 10 because it applies to the FBR charge.

11 And the only mens rea in the FBR charge is 12 intentionally. 20 today.

21 You have our position.

22 THE COURT: Thank you.

23 MR. STEINGLASS: And, lastly, Judge, there was --
24 and I'm not casting any aspersions here.

25 And I will hand a copy up to the Court, and I have 13 So, the correct mens rea for that charge should be 14 intentionally not willfully.

15 MR. BOVE: The CJI charge, the model charge that 16 we're talking about lists as examples intentionally, 17 recklessly, with criminal negligence.

18 I don't believe that to be an exhaustive list of 19 the options we've talked a lot about the willfully mens rea 4 the FBR charge -- and you know we very much disagree with, 5 but understand Mr. Bove's argument about willfully as it 6 applies to the FECA.

7 We oppose that, and your Honor has held that in 8 abeyance, but under no circumstances should the accessorial 4446 1 given a copy to the Defense.

2 There is a curative instruction that we are 3 requesting on Retainer Agreements. 4 Through their cross-examination of three separate 5 witnesses, the Defense erroneously suggested that Retainer 6 Agreements in New York State don't have to be in writing.

7 They did that on cross of McConney.

8 I'm directing your Honor to the transcript Page 9 2401:
10 "QUESTION: Retainer Agreements can be verbal; 11 correct?" 12 "ANSWER: To my knowledge, yes." 13 That's incorrect. 14 They cannot be verbal.

15 I direct your Honor, if you don't mind, let me just 16 find this, please.

17 It's at 22 NYC CC 1215.1.

18 I can hand up copies, if your Honor wants.

19 I have already sent them to Mr. Bove. 20 Do you want a copy? 21 THE COURT: Sure. 22 MR. STEINGLASS: Okay.

23 Just a minute. 24 (Handed.)
25 MR. STEINGLASS: Give me a minute to find it, but I
4447 1 will just make my argument.

2 THE COURT: I can find it.

3 That's fine.

5 transcript.

19 And culminating with the following question:
20 "QUESTION: Because you know under New York Ethics 21 Rules, you don't need a Retainer Agreement to do work for a 22 client; do you?"
23 And the answer to that was elicited erroneously 24 was, "No."
6 It's the cross-examination of Mr. Cohen, after a 7 long conversation about Retainer Agreements.

8 Mr. Bove asks -- and I'm directing the Court to 9 Pages 3957 through 3961 of the transcript.

10 THE COURT: 3957.

11 MR. STEINGLASS: 3957 to 3961.

12 After a long conversation about not having a 13 Retainer Agreements and, by the way, there's nothing wrong 14 with that.

15 There is a long colloquy back and forth about how 16 there was no Retainer Agreement even after Mr. Cohen left 17 The Trump Organization and became the Personal Attorney to 18 the President.

4 MR. STEINGLASS: Thank you. So back to the 25 This was also done with Mr. Davidson on 4448 1 cross-examination, on Pages 1896 through 1897 in the 2 transcript.

3 "QUESTION: And that engagement, that 5 it?" 6 "ANSWER: It was not."
7 "QUESTION: And there is nothing wrong with that; 8 is there?" 9 "ANSWER: There is not."
10 "QUESTION: That's an ethical practice to have an 11 attorney-client relationship without an engagement letter; 12 right?" 13 "ANSWER: Yes." 14 So, as I said, I'm not ascribing any bad motives to 15 the Defense team, but those are just misstatements of the 16 law. 19 And I do have a copy. 20 It's somewhere in here. 21 THE COURT: Thank you. 22 MR. STEINGLASS: Of both of the New York City Rules 23 and Regulations as well as some case law that interprets 24 them.

25 (Handed.)
17 And I think that it is incumbent upon your Honor to 18 cure those misperceptions of the law.

4 attorney-client engagement was not committed to writing; was 4449 1 MR. STEINGLASS: And I will just cite those cases 2 for the record.

3 Give me one moment. 4 People -- well, the first and foremost case is 5 Seth Rubinstein PC versus Ganea, 41 AD 3d 54 Second 6 Department 2007. 9 And Barry Mallin and Associates PC versus Nash 10 Metalware Co., Inc., 18 Misc. 3D 890. 11 That's a Civil Court of New York County case from 13 So, we believe that this instruction is necessary 14 to cure the erroneous impression left that there is nothing 15 improper about not having a written Retainer Agreement. 16 It is, in fact, the law.

17 MR. BOVE: We don't think that's right, Judge.

18 First of all, the rule that was just cited, 1215.1, is 19 followed by 1215.2, which sets forth a series of exceptions, 20 including at subparagraph B, a situation where 21 representation with the attorneys' services are the same 22 kind as previously rendered and --
23 THE COURT: Do you have a copy of that? 24 MR. BOVE: Yes, Judge, I do.

25 (Handed.)
7 There is also a matter of Brown 133 AD 3d 7 First 8 Department from 2015.

12 2008.

4450 1 **********
2 THE COURT: All right.

3 MR. BOVE: And so, I was referring to subparagraph 4 B as an exception, which is certainly consistent with the 5 testimony, and we are talking about, of course, the 6 testimony of the Government's witnesses at this trial. 9 I think when your Honor reads that case, what you 10 will see is that what it's really about is whether and to 11 what extent a retainer letter is necessary to permit an 12 attorney to recover fees from the client. 13 It's not about whether, as a matter of ethics rules 14 and attorney's ethical obligations, the Retainer Agreement 15 is necessary. 16 I have some cases as well that we hope your Honor 17 will look at before you rule on this.

18 One is Moran. And I'm going to hand this one to 19 Mr. Steinglass. 20 MR. STEINGLASS: Thank you. 21 (Handed.) 22 MR. BOVE: This is a Second Department case.

23 And the language that I'm looking at is at 24 Page 9111.

25 Since an attorney-client relationship does not 7 You know, the Government cited the Rubinstein case.

8 I have a copy of that here as well.

4451 1 depend on the existence of a formal Retainer Agreement or 2 upon payment of a fee.

3 That's one case that I will hand up with the 4 highlighted portion. 6 Mr. Steinglass.

7 This is also a Second Department case. An 8 attorney-client relationship may arise even in the absence 9 of a written Retainer Agreement. That's at Page 997.

10 I will hand that up.

11 (Handed.)
12 THE COURT: Thank you.

13 MR. BOVE: Lastly, Pellegrino, First Department, 14 your Honor.

15 While the existence of the relationship is not 16 dependent upon the payment of a fee or an explicit 17 Agreement.

18 And I am reading there from Page 99.

19 And I will hand that up as well.

20 So, what we're really getting at here is that we 21 think that the Government's witnesses testified in a manner 22 that was consistent with the law that I have just cited.

23 So, there is certainly no curative instruction 24 necessary.

25 Though I appreciate the concession that we weren't 5 I have also got Edelman. I just handed that to 4452 1 trying to do anything inappropriate.

2 In fact, the Government's witnesses were testifying 3 correctly. 4 And this is also a situation, Judge, there has been 5 several times today where we've said we are not going to 6 have instructions that sort of credit or put weight on other 7 arguments.

8 This is the Government seeking to have weight put 9 on their argument about whether a Retainer Agreement is 10 required. 11 Those authorities establish that that's not the 12 case. 13 But, in any event, this is a matter that their own 14 witnesses testified about, and it's for the jury.

15 MR. STEINGLASS: I think Mr. Bove is missing the 16 point of what I was handing up those cases for.

17 I agree that those cases are in the context of 18 whether fees can be collected.

19 But they cite to the New York City Code of Rules 20 and Regulations, and they acknowledge the existence of the 21 rule that requires them. 22 This is not about whether or not there is a dispute 23 over legal fees between the parties. 24 This is about whether it was correct for the 25 Defense to ask questions of the witnesses to imply -- not to 4453 1 imply, to outright state, that there is no requirement for a 2 written Retainer Agreement.

3 And there is.

6 Mr. Cohen testified that he did maybe ten hours of legal 14 Organization for the ten years before when he was on salary, 12 rendered to and paid for by the client as though that 13 somehow covers what Mr. Cohen was doing for the Trump 15 is, I think, I don't want to say disingenuous because that's 16 a pejorative, but not appropriate and does not cure the fact 17 that they have misled the jury.

18 THE COURT: All right. I will read the rules.

19 I will read the decisions and I will get back to 20 you on that. 21 Anything else? 22 MR. STEINGLASS: That's it for us, Judge.

23 MR. BOVE: Nothing else. Thank you. 24 THE COURT: If after reading the rules and the 25 decisions I determine that there is a requirement that there 9 So, to say that 1215.2 sub B, which is an exception 10 to the rule requiring a Retainer Agreement when the attorney 11 services are of the same general described as previously 7 work for Mr. Trump and his family in the entire year of 8 2017.

4 And the theoretical exception that Mr. Bove points 5 to in 1215.2 sub B is not applicable here because even 4454 3 But until I get to that point, there is no need to 4 argue it.

5 We are going to make every effort to get our jury 6 charges to you by the end of the day Thursday so you can 7 have the full four-day weekend to work on your summations.

8 If anything comes up, please do not wait until 9 Tuesday to let me know; send us an email; give us a call and 10 let us know what's going on. 11 Thank you. 12 MR. STEINGLASS: Thank you. 13 MR. BOVE: Thank you, your Honor. 14 (Matter adjourned to Tuesday, May 28th, 2024 at 15 9:30 a.m.) 16 *******
17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 1 be a retainer, we are going to have to have a follow up as 2 to how to deal with this.